Juan Estadella 


Diary of an 


Astrologer 


Digital * Star 
1 


Â© 2017, Juan Estadella Edited by: 

Digital Star 

First edition: September 2017 Layout and 

cover design: DS Printed in Spain by: 
Topegrafic Legal Deposit: B-22058-2017 

I have never kept a diary, but I found it 
interesting to write down my impressions of the 
day or the week in a notebook. Sometimes, by 
an external stimulus: a news or a marked 
event. Other times, for an internal motivation: 
memories, personal notes and others. I have 
omitted everything about my clients, for 
obvious reasons. Most of the entries are from 
the year the book is published, but not 
all. Nor does it cover the entire year, since 
the newspaper begins and ends with its back to 
the calendar, although everything is more or 
less correlative. These notes, in the form of 
a comment or personal reflection, make up a 
diary, although very unorthodox. And I have 
found it fun and refreshing to publish it, 


between my book and my book, although without 
great pretensions. In fact, it will never enter 
the publishing circuit. It will not be offered 
to any publisher, because among other things, 
astrologically it has no other interest than 
to know a little more how I see life through 
the light of the stars. 


* One cannot consider himself a real astrologer 
if he does not think and live life with the 
astrological chip always installed. Twenty- 
four hours a day. Even when it rings. When I 
go down the street, under any circumstance, and 
unconsciously, I always keep in mind the 
traffic of the moment, my primary directions 
in the orb and my own natal theme. And what can 
be a serious danger for anyone, I assimilate 
from my natal astrological reality and that of 
the moment; Either preparing or not 
worrying. And this is a great advantage in 
life. But it is not a gift from heaven, but a 
liberating knowledge that one has earned 
before. I can't help it. It's a professional 
distortion, I suppose, albeit a positive 
one. The real astrologer sees the world through 
the planetary passages through a sign, the 
interplanetary aspects and the rest of the 
celestial configurations. Read in advance in 
heaven the possible influence on earth. The 


astrologer from before, before the days of 
computers, bought Raphael's Ephemerides every 
year and had them always at hand, on his desk 
or on the bedside table, perhaps. And 
everything, everything was filtered from that 
infinite game of planetary combinations: the 
punctual consultation of a client, the analysis 
of the reality of any given day or that plane 
accident that appeared on the front page of the 
press 


x Today Oscar, a friend of Boris Cristoff from 
Montevideo (Uruguay) called me. He tells me 
that Boris just passed away, just a few minutes 
ago. I take care of him and he was with him 
until the last moment. I knew it was going to 
happen, because I was very sick. In the last 
few weeks we have spoken on the phone and we 
remember many experiences that we have both 
shared. He knew his long and fruitful life was 
coming to an end and so did I, but we never 
mentioned it. But we said goodbye at a 
distance. Two old friends, astrologers, who see 
their respective paths part forever. It takes 
a lot to get used to the idea that I will never 
be able to communicate with him on Skype 
again, as we did almost every week. Never hear 
your voice or read your emails again, it will 
be hard. Luckily, I invited him to come to my 
house in Barcelona in April 2014. He was with 
me for a week. We visited our common friend 
Joaquim Teixidor, who invited us to eat at his 
favorite Chinese restaurant, like other times, 
near his apartment on Calle Muntaner. We were 


also invited by one of my editors: Juli 
Peradejordi, owner and director of the 
important publishing house Obelisco . He was 
kind enough to invite us to eat at 
the Brasserie Flo restaurant in Barcelona. A 
great meal, which we also shared with an 
editorial board. We also traveled to the Costa 
Brava, visiting some of the most picturesque 


towns: Begur, Llafranch ... We were together a 
week and months later we met again in Paris 
(France). It was the last time I saw him in 


person. There will be no more trips to meet, 
there will be no more meals or more astrology 
conferences to share. But the memory of a long 
and fruitful friendship remains. Boris asked me 
to finish and take care of publishing his 
latest book, which is a compendium of his 
methods, a kind of autobiography and endless 
predictions for the future. I have added a 
final chapter with predictions for the 21st 
century and I have revised and completed the 
text, according to your instructions and your 
will. I am sure that you would have liked the 
new and last book that we will publish 
together. We did three books together and we 
always make a good team. In my natal chart I 
have a revealing transit, which justifies the 
death of my friend: Uranus in opposition to the 
cusp of the natal VIII house, typical of 
deaths, either of oneself or of relatives and 
close friends. 


* Donald Trump takes possession of the 
presidency of the United States of America 


today. From the moment you are sworn in, the 
nuclear briefcase changes hands. And the letter 
for that moment will reflect his journey as 
president. It is a letter with a certain 
emphasis on the XI house: friends, advisers, 
partners and relationships in general. In a 
word: complicated. Complicated for this part of 
his tenure. Saturn in house VIII is not very 
favorable for the economy of the country, a 
priori, but especially in relation to public 
debt and fiscal matters. It is true that not 
everything is negative in this letter: Jupiter 
in house VI can favor employment, with its 
protective effect. The letter of the first 
Reagan presidency (1981) and the first term of 
Bill Clinton (1993) also had Jupiter in the 6th 
house and they were years of a sharp increase 
in employment. There are more interesting 
settings to analyze, sure, but I'll leave it 
here. 


* I have just returned from my trip to 
India. After more than sixty countries visited 
on five continents, India could not wait any 
longer. And with an undeniable astrological 
appeal. I scheduled the trip for January and 
everything went according to plan. I have been 
to New Delhi, Agra, Bombay, Benares and other 
cities. I was able to visit astrological 
libraries, astronomical observatories from 
another era and more. And I had the opportunity 
to be invited to an astrological center in New 
Delhi, where I was able to give a little talk 
in English to astrology students. The trip 


passed without any problems or setbacks, just 
as I had anticipated, since not only was the 
astrological context of the moment free of 
negative aspects, but a favorable primary 
direction pointed out positive events or 
experiences in relation to possible trips. And 
the same with regard to the astrology course I 
teach! the following February 11 in Barcelona: 
large influx of attendees and a good sale of 
my books. 


* The one who has been president of Banco 
Popular for more than ten years, Angel Ron, has 
just stepped down as president. His agreed 
departure is controversial, since it leaves the 
Spanish bank in a very bad situation. His 
management in recent times seems to be that it 
has been very unfortunate. The traffic that you 
have in your letter is significant: Neptune 
conjunct Jupiter, typical of financial 
illusions, of making castles in the air and of 
important errors of judgment. With such a 
traffic, one always sins of lack of 
realism. When I see this temporary 
configuration in some of my clients, I always 
advise them to be careful and not to be fooled 
with false expectations. 


* Today I received an email from Miguel Arias, 
famous restaurateur, former owner of the Madrid 


restaurant Las Cuatro Estaciones and, 
currently, of other gastronomic and restaurant 
spaces in Madrid (Aspen) and 


Mallorca (Flanigan). This businessman is a 


close friend of King Juan Carlos I; in fact, 
one of his best friends, and for a long time, 
too. He has written to me in reply to a letter 
I sent him a few days ago. The motive was to 
clear up an old misunderstanding that has 
lasted almost twenty years. Our common friend 
Helena Picard, widow of the Madrid astrologer 
Gerardo Sanchez, presented me with her 
husband's collection of astrological 
books. This has been almost twenty years, as I 
say. I was Helena's astrologer and she wanted 
to additionally reward me for my services with 
this donation. Put these books together with 
part of my private library on astrology and 
donate them to the Biblioteca de Catalunya, 
which is on Calle del Hospital de Barcelona. In 
fact, the collection is called the Astrological 
Library of Juan Estadella and Gerardo 
Sanchez and anyone can consult the books. It 
was not just a matter of space: I always thought 
that they would be better available to all 
researchers and scholars of our discipline than 
in my office. At the time, Helena told me - or 
I remembered him so - that Miguel Arias, a 
friend of the couple and Gerardo's client, did 
not agree, because Gerardo was an astrologer 
from Madrid and the books had to stay in 
Madrid. Personally, I have always been clear 
that thanks to my taking the books with me, 
they did not end up on the private shelves of 
an astrologer or, worse still, scattered around 
the Madrid Rastro. On the contrary, they are 
now available to everyone, Catalan or Spanish, 


in a public library, the main one in 
Catalonia. I just kept some old red House 
Tables, protected with a transparent adhesive 
in the form of covers, that Gerardo used in his 
daily consultation. It has some personal 
annotations and, to me, they are priceless, so 
I did not include them in the donation. Well, 
I had yet to explain well to Mr. Arias that I 
keep the books, but that I donate them to a 
library selflessly. And after almost twenty 
years, he wrote to her. Mr. Miguel Arias 
responded to me in a very kind email telling 
me that he never gave his opinion regarding the 
fate of Gerardo's collection. Good. I'm not 
going to say that I'm calmer, but I did like 
his courteous and considerate response. I have 
sent you a copy of my book Predictions for the 
Zlst Century. I hope he and his friends make 
good use of that astrological information 


* I have read the controversial autobiography 
of Hedy Lamarr: Ecstasy and me. The book has 
always been involved in controversy, since it 
was published in English in the sixties, I 
think I remember. Not only because of what this 
intelligent and beautiful actress declared, but 
because it was also declared that it had been 
written in part by a literary Negro. In fact, 
Lamarr later disavowed the text and said that 
most of it was made up. That if: he said it 
when he had already cashed the check. I think 
there is a lot of filler, especially in the 
most controversial, in order to attract the 
attention of the public. It is normal: 


publishers - many unscrupulous - want to sell 
more and more, and the controversy generates 
expectation and this results in more 
Sales. However, there are some passages in the 
book that seem authentic to me. For example, 
she says in a part of the work: "My horoscope 
says that I am a restless woman. It is true. I 
like category discussions. Perhaps it would be 
useful if people paid more attention to the 
horoscope and lived more in accordance with it. 
Afterwards Anyway, any gluttony can make life 
easier. According to Dr. Marla Graciette, 
Scorpion is a sign of independence, and her 
main problem is ingratitude. Scorpio women 
experience great swings of sexual desire and 
it is difficult for them to find the right 
spouse. ". This thought fits her personality 
and what I know about her as well! which is 
very possible that it is real. On the other 
hand, she was a woman who not only stood out 
for her cinematographic career, as she came to 
patent some surprising inventions. 


* Today I arrived in Iran on an early morning 
flight. I left Tehran airport in an old taxi 
bound for the southern bus terminal in the 
capital. I have not slept at all for the 

Rare combination of my flight connection, from 
Istanbul to Tehran. But I'm not sleepy either, 
really. I am awake, very awake and alert. It 
is night and while I cross the city, whieh 
sleeps silently, I mentally review my travel 
plan: take a bus in 


direction to Kashan, visit the city and, 
especially, the ancient ziggurat of Tappeh 
Sialk. Later, I intend to leave for Saveh, 
another mythical city, which Marco Polo 
mentions in his travel book as the place where 
the remains of the three Wise Men rest. I have 
precisely chosen this city for my solar return, 
but not because of its historical importance 
for astrology, because of its connection with 
the Magi from the East, but simply because it 
is the best card I have seen for my solar 
revolution. It's around four in the morning and 
I'm making time to take a bus to the south of 
the country. The terminal is half empty, with 
a few users waiting for their bus. Some 
policemen go through the circular station and 
some other vendor is preparing his store, about 
to open now. It's cold and I have ordered a 
very hot coffee 


* A historical fact: the women's soccer teams 
of the two Koreas have faced each other, 
playing the friendly match in the capital of 
North Korea. It is something unusual, which 
does not happen every year or every decade. The 
reflection in the sky of this event seems 
interesting to me: Sun and Jupiter in 
opposition, within the Aries-Libra axis, 
emphasizing the I-you, said planets being in 
tension due to the square they receive from 
Pluto; a subtle, underhanded, but real tension, 
for clear political and historical reasons. To 
be sure, the Venus-Saturn square stops any 
spontaneous display of warmth and affection 


between the two teams, human beings separated 
in the 1950s after the so-called Korean War. 


* Today I got up at 9 a.m. and went to the 
Biblioteca de Catalunya on Hospital Street in 
Barcelona. It is the main library in 
Barcelona. I have been going for more than 
twenty years. There, in his Reserve Room, I 
have seen and read centuries-old astrology 
books, such as Junctino's Speculum 
Astrologiae . It is a very special place and 
luckily free of tourists. At this time I am 
writing a book on elective astrology and I have 
gone to consult some works. Paradoxically, some 
of them were donated by me to the library. At 
around 11 am I went down to have a coffee on 
Hospital Street. It was raining weakly but 
people kept walking. In the library I have 
consulted a book by the eminent Arabist Jose 
Maria Millas Vallicrosa: Estudios sobre 
Azarquiel. Azarquiel was an lith century 
astronomer and astrologer, creator of the 
Azafea. We know that apart from conceiving and 
manufacturing precision instruments such as 
astrolabs, he also ventured into astrology, 
although his fame is due more to his status as 
an astronomer and to his most notable creation: 
the Azafea, a revolutionary astronomical 
observation tool. Proof that Azarquiel also 
dedicated his time and energy to astrology is 
this work, where Millas Vallicrosa glossed a 
little astrological book contained in the 
Arabic manuscript No. 1,421 of the Vienna 
Library. According to Millas Vallicrosa, it is 


a small treatise, very elementary, in which 
astrological influences are described. 


* New Moon at 6 Â° of Taurus. This is a zodiac 
sign that has. a lot to do with math and 
Calculations. And it is interesting that 
today an Umayyad astrolabe is auctioned 
at Sotheby's London, which is the oldest known 
from Muslim Spain. It was built by Muhammad Ibn 
al-Saffar in Cordoba (Spain), back in 1020. It 
is priced between 350,000 and 585,000 
Euros. There are two other copies of the same 
constructor. The astrolabe was, in the past, 
an important tool for the astrologer. It is a 
contraption that is made up of different 
assembled elements: the mother, the plate, the 
spider and other parts of it. With an astrolabe 
we can know the position and height of a star 
in the sky, among other functions that this 
device has. The Azafea, created by Azarquiel, 
improved the functionality of the astrolabe as 
it could be used at any geographic latitude. In 
the past I made a homemade cardboard astrolabe, 
something very easy to do, on the other hand. 


* A kind of biopic has just been released, in 
serial form, about Albert Einstein: Genius. It 
has been produced by National Geographic and 
issued in the form of chapters that do not leave 
anyone indifferent: every week we are surprised 
by the more or less fictionalized life of this 
scientist with some scandalous or controversial 
detail. An Einstein sometimes selfish, 
sometimes proud ... At this moment, the transit 


of Neptune over the Midheaven in Einstein's 
letter reflects well the general impression: a 


rare genius, different from what was 
expected. The same happened with So ^ a 
Coppola's movie about Ma k a 


Antonieta. Surprisingly (or not) the traffic on 
the letter from the French queen was the same. 


* Returning to Einstein: there is a famous 
quote from this scientist that is not true. It 
is the one in which he supposedly defends 
astrology. And among our astrological group it 
has been repeated and sold ad nauseam as 
propaganda for our discipline. It seems that 
it was a mistake, but it has been perpetuated 
until today. The truth is that Einstein's 
endorsement is not that important. In addition, 
what degree of knowledge about our subject 
could he have? I'm sure I don't think of any 
other astrology than that of the signs of the 
zodiac, already popular in the 1930s and 
onwards in the 20th century. However, I do know 
that there is a private letter in which he 
refers to our science-art in a somewhat 
ambiguous or unclear way. The letter is dated 
January 7, 1943 and the recipient is a certain 


Eugene Simon, from Saint Paul (Minnesota, 
USA). The letter, signed by Einstein and 
clearly authentic, reads as follows: "I fully 


agree with you regarding the pseudo-science of 
astrology. The interesting thing is that this 
type of superstition is so stubborn that it 
could persist for several centuries. ". Yes, 
astrology is a tenacious science-art (not a 


pseudo-science or a superstition), but not for 
any reason, historical or otherwise, but 
because there is a great truth in the message 
of the stars. A lie cannot last that 
long. Nobody is perfect, as is usually said, 
but we should expect a greater open-mindedness 
on their part, as if Isaac Newton had it, 
favorable to astrology, moreover. We cannot 
equate the 1940s or 1950s with Newton and his 
time, but science is science and prejudices are 
always prejudices. 


* Einstein had his criteria more or less rigid 
on some issues. For example: there was a debate 
between Niels Bohr and Albert Einstein in the 
first half of the 20th century with important 
disagreements between both scientists -who were 
friends-, with quantum physics as the 
protagonist. It was not a sterile debate, since 
Einstein's criticisms may well have been 
productive in the end, but it is an example of 
the intransigence of this universal genius in 
some points; whether he was right or not; well 
intentioned or not, and with a scientific 
attitude or not. 


ij On Einstein's brain, which by the way is 
preserved in formaldehyde: Who dares to assess 
the degree of intelligence of this genius of 
physics? Well, I suppose no one, but it must 
be said that their neurons were especially 
interconnected to shine in science: in physics, 
especially, and in mathematics. Years ago I 
read ^ his book: The World As I See It Or 


AN 


Something and I am not impressed at 
all. Neither his ideas nor how he wove his 
speech on various issues. 


X In Einstein's birth chart the opposition 
between Jupiter in Aquarius in house IX and 
Uranus in Virgo in house III is extremely 
important: a very productive mental 
tension. This opposition is part of a Square T 
that involves Pluto, between House XI 
(colleagues, teamwork) and House XII (pure 
investigation, isolation). It is one of the 
engines of your letter, if not the main 
one. The Sun in X is secondary in importance, 
for it could have justified a simple but 
brilliant teaching career in Physics or 
Mathematics. Also a productive and efficient 
Mars in VIII, in Capricorn, is relevant in your 
chart: it is research per se and is connected 
with the Sun in X and with Pluto in XI- 
XII. Obviously the Cancer Ascendant, always 
intuitive and sensitive above all else, helps, 
as well as the conjunction between Mercury and 
Saturn, in the pioneering sign of Aries, which 
gives your intellect the necessary structure 
and depth. 


* Thinking and writing about Einstein has 
awakened in me everything related to reasoning 
well, so to speak. I think that the so- 
called Critical Thinking, promoted by Richard 
Paul, can be really useful to discern and 
decide better. Thinking more effectively, 
without aberrations, more objectively and more 


deeply at the same time, can make people 
happier. However, the rational component of the 
mixture is only a part of that mortar or mortar 
that, apart from portland cement or lime, needs 
sand and water. That is to say: without 
intuition, without emotion or without 
inspiration we are robotizing our intellectual 
behavior. More effective, yes, more certain 
perhaps, but more... inhuman? Sometimes one 
decides with the heart and not with the 
brain. For example: if I buy a sports car that 
I may not be able to pay for later or that is 
financially a wreck, is it really a bad 
decision? Maybe it is for our banker or for our 
mother or wife. But, in the balance of life: 
how much do the illusion, satisfaction and 
happiness of the moment weigh? Will we live 
forever, indefinitely in need of material 
resources? Does it make sense to sacrifice and 
better manage these material resources to 
bequeath a heritage that others will enjoy or 
squander? This is where overly strict, 
rational, and objective thinking can fail. It 
is a small sample, but there are many more 
examples every day and, sometimes, of greater 
importance because they touch the human, and 
even the ineffable di ^ a. 


* And this is where astrology enters the scene: 
from our chart, at a static and dynamic level, 
we can understand each other better and see the 
scope of our decisions. We can understand our 
motivations and those of others, and even the 
repercussions of our actions on third parties, 


and in the long term for everyone. We can 
choose better, in short. Can you overcome 
that? No. Anyway, even with astrology we can 
always do more 

to run better, to be more intelligent and to 
add this contributing factor that is to thank 
better and that, added to astrological 
thinking; can make us make wiser 
decisions. Because we are constantly choosing 
and deciding things that modify our present and 
our future. For this reason, although I am an 
astrologer to the core and everything in my 
revolves around astrology, I also contemplate 
supporting myself in other realities that, in 
the end, have a synergistic effect used 
together with the old science of the stars. For 
example: before a 

problem, we must approach its resolution in a 
constructive and intelligent way. In his 
book How we think the educator John Dewey 
philosopher and sets out the following steps 
to reach a logical way to the bottom of problems 
and resolve them : the 

first step is to be aware of the problem. The 
second, define and analyze 
it, establishing its 


parameters. The third, the rational approach 
from various angles, considering a number of 
options and various working hypotheses for its 
solution and to verify its effectiveness. 


* More about thinking (better): it is also 


It is important to challenge the assumptions 
and beliefs of always, striving to think and 
go beyond appearances. With this, we will be 
opening new neural networks that will make our 
reasoning wiser and more 
efficient. Personally, I train my "fluid 
intelligence" through astrology. For this, it 
is necessary to exercise the so-called working 
memory, which is nothing more than mentally 
operating with multiple data and information, 
integrating and applying them for a specific 
purpose. For others, playing chess or even 
playing a musical instrument may help. For me, 
that training is to analyze a birth chart, 
study its future prospects or simply think 
about astrology, for example. But it is always 
necessary that this involves a certain mental 
effort, improvising and evaluating 
everything. Reasoning is the "top" 
intelligence, so to speak. Reasoning involves 
observing a problem and striving to extract 
regularities and relationships that are formed 
between the elements that make up the same 
problem. Polishing, perfecting the way of 
reasoning, neutralizing perceptual deception, 
is the correct and necessary thing to do. You 
have to be systematic and rigorous in thinking 
and reasoning to get it right. 


Also, do not forget that the more you learn, 
the easier it is to continue doing 
it; dendritic arborization is largely to 
blame. After all, it seems that the level of 
intelligence is closely related to the degree 


of connection or communication between the 
dendrites. There is scientific evidence that 
before a specific learning or acquiring a 
special ability there are morphological changes 
(macroscopic and microscopic) in the 
brain. London (England) taxi drivers and their 
hippocampus are a good example of this. The 
neuroplasticity of the brain is a fact, as it 
is modified in two ways: learning new things 
and having new experiences. With this, we 
change our neural architecture. Therefore, it 
is essential to stimulate the mind with new 
studies, challenges and experiences. There is, 
therefore, an exponential growth (with a 
multiplier effect) by enriching our lives with 
new experiences and knowledge. Let's say that 
you have to get your brain out of the routine 
to grow intellectually, get it out of its 
comfort zone. And what better way than 
accepting new challenges, getting the best out 
of ourselves in the face of a personal or 
professional crisis, or picking up the suitcase 
and setting off to travel the world, on an 
adventure. 

We tend to underestimate the power and 
resources of our brain. What does it matter 
that neurons disappear every day if the ones 
that remain become more efficient and 
interconnected with the others. Age is not an 
excuse, but one more encouragement to go 
further. Vital inertia and experience are there 
to accompany us. Let's think that with a single 
thought glands and hormones are activated, 


which flood the bloodstream and modify or 
condition the body depending on the type of 
thought or emotion. We can also influence that 
automatic thinking that apparently we cannot 
control using tools such as meditation or 
autosuggestion, opening the door of the 
subconscious mind and entering the place where 
negative habits and behaviors 
inhabit. Astrology is very important and can 
make a difference to choose well and decide 
better, but we must not discard other elements 
Or points of view that help us. And simple 
things like so-called mind maps are also 
important. 


In short: apart from training as an astrologer, 
one also has to do it from an intellectual and 
cultural point of view and, also, in the form 
of a life experience. How can we advise our 
clients as astrologers without that much-needed 
part? In my career as a consultant astrologer, 
I have always had to make use of - worth the 
colloguial expression - knowledge other than 
astrology and my own life experience, common 
sense apart. Therefore, let us also strive to 
complete that personal side. No computer can 


do that - let alone advise on a human and 
personal level - and perhaps none can ever do 
Ita 


* I read in the press that the famous Swiss 
climber Ueli Steck has died on Everest due to 
an unfortunate accident. It is a pity that he 
had no knowledge of astrology; enough 


knowledge, anado. At the time of his death he 
suffered the dangerous transit of Uranus in 
opposition to his birth Mars, typical of all 
kinds of accidents. With this transit, everyone 
should exercise extreme precautions and 
minimize risks. Also on these same dates the 
well-known Hollywood actor Nicholas Cage 
suffered an accident on set. And curiously with 
the same transit: Uranus in opposition to the 
natal Mars. In this case, fortunately it did 
not have fatal consequences. 


* Today I am meeting my friend and client 
Baroness Thyssen at the famous Sandor cafe- 
restaurant , in Plaza Francesc Macia in 
Barcelona. We chatted for a long time, 
amicably. I have been your personal astrologer 
for almost fifteen years, and mutual trust is 
absolute. She knows she can trust me: loyalty 
to my consultants is part of my nature as an 
astrologer. We have taken some photos - one I 
have posted on my website, with his permission 
- and I have promised that I would send him my 
book Predictions for the 21st century, because 
he is very interested in our collective 
destiny. 


* It is 100 years (it was May 13, 1917) of the 
apparition of the Virgin of Fatima in 
Portugal. On that date, the Sun was square to 
Uranus (something extraordinary) and Mars was 
square to Neptune (spiritual exaltation). A 
very appropriate combination for a supernatural 
experience. 


* The famous Italian rider Valentino Rossi has 
suffered a fall on a motocross motorcycle. The 
result: mild thoracic and abdominal trauma. The 
planetary transit that best explains its fall 
is that of Uranus as opposed to the cusp of 
House III. His birth chart reflects his 
success: Jupiter in sextile to the Midheaven, 
his physical ability or his dexterity at the 
handlebars of his motorcycle: Mercury in 
opposition to the Ascendant, and his hobby and 
professional dedication to the motor: Mars (in 


Aquarius) in the VI house ( work) in square 
(practically exact) to Uranus (in Scorpio) in 
house III (races). Mars and Uranus are in 


Mutual Reception, even when they are square. 


* Today, with the Sun at 15 Â° of Taurus, I have 
received a response to an email that I sent to 
the Via Veneto Restaurant , in Barcelona. It 
is one of the best restaurants in the 
city. Years ago I went to eat by myself and the 
experience was very satisfying. They turned 50 
a month ago and I asked them for the exact date 
of the inauguration. They have responded to me 
from the address of the establishment that the 
opening was on April 16, 1967, a date that is 
not the one that everyone knows. I think they 
opened their doors for lunch, which was Sunday, 
around LZ Sil: Pile that time Leo was 
ascending. At least, it should have opened its 
doors between that time and 2:00 p.m., because 
the appearance and the Leo character are 
strongly noticeable: it is a place with a 
regal, ornate and luxurious air. The ruler of 


the Ascendant, the Sun, is in house X, in the 
Sign of Aries, and they have always tried to 
be at the forefront of Barcelona cuisine. But 
what strikes me the most as an astrologer is 
the Square T that he enjoys. Yes, I have not 
been mistaken, because this configuration, 
typical of having antibodies for the fight and 
of not bowing to anything, has been very useful 
in years of strong economic crisis, which have 
overtaken other similar competing businesses. 

It is a self-demanding, rigorous restaurant, 
always immersed in the permanent search for 
excellence. I like this: I do the same with 
astrology. And it's not the only thing we have 
in common: we were both born in the same year, 
barely twenty days apart. 


* The former Panamanian dictator Manuel Antonio 
Noriega has died at the age of eighty-three. He 
has been in prison for the past few years. In 


your natal chart: Sun conjunct Saturn in 
Aquarius, but Jupiter and Uranus look 
good. This conjunction - which Lucky Luciano 
also had - is always difficult, although 


something good can be extracted from it, such 
as self-discipline and ambition. I can speak 
properly, with my Sun conjunct Saturn in Aries 
in the I house. How does the world look through 
this configuration? The truth is that a natal 
chart is a whole, a sum of energies that is 
compensated in its different 
elements. Something like mixing a thousand and 
one colors: in the end, there is an undefined 
pÃ¼tt real color, which is the sum of 


everything. My conjunction has no contact with 
the rest of the letter, so it may be different 
from other similar combinations. I could say 
that it is like the axis of my whole world. You 
feel that you are alone. Only. You can have a 
large family, live with children, and have a 
wife, a pet, and friends, but you can only count 
on yourself. Nothing else. This is subjective 
perception. One feels just as Seneca tells of 
Estilpon in his Moral Epistles to Lucilio, that 
upon losing everything, he affirms: all my 
goods go with me. 


* I do not like football. What's more: it bores 
me sovereignly. But I like astrology and 
everything falls under its umbrella, including 
this ball game. I have the founding cards of 
the two most important clubs in Spain: Real 
Madrid and Futbol Club Barcelona. I have been 
able to reconstruct - rather than rectify - the 
time from official data, various information 
and astrological deductions. And with dozens of 
events, I have adjusted the theoretical time 
they were born with the help of the 
traffic. Likewise, only with the day we already 
understand how both teams differ. For example: 
Real Madrid has a very tough and aggressive 
Square T, which involves its competitive Sun- 
Mars conjunction, Uranus and Pluto. This 
justifies his reputation for never giving up, 
his ambition and his fighting nature. If my 
assumption about your Libra Ascendant is 
correct, the Focal Point of the Square T (Sun- 
Mars) is located in the V house, the sector 


that has to do with playing and competing. With 
this Libra Ascendant it is understood what they 
Say about thus club: its chivalry and what it 
is a "sir" club. The sign of the Midheaven is 
Cancer, whose ruler -the Moon- is in 
applicative conjunction to Jupiter. Not 
bad. His eternal rival, FC Barcelona, has in 
his favor a Leo Ascendant -if the time I manage 
is correct- and a Sun in Sagittarius: double 
Fire, which always helps at a sporting 
level. The Moon in opposition to Jupiter also 
justifies its popularity. And a very strong V 
house, just like its rival. Sagittarius, a sign 
related to sport and competition, 

hosts six planets: a record. 


5 The news of the moment is the global 
cyberattack, which has hit servers and websites 
all over the world, especially those of 
governments or entities of a certain 
importance. It was a perfectly orchestrated 
attack. Can we deduce something from how the 
planets are in the sky? Mercury is in 
conjunction with Uranus, as the most striking 
element, perhaps. Although the square between 
Mars and Neptune seems more relevant to me, 
which usually generates fanaticism. Mars is in 
the sign of Gemini 

(communications) and it also fits well with 
what has happened. The exact trigon with 
Jupiter also justifies the strength of the 
initiative and its impact. Nor can we forget 
that Saturn is currently in Sagittarius and in 
the natural horoscope of the world we have the 


two malefics filling the axis III-IX, which has 
SO much to do with such an event: 
international, global. Curious. 


x I am in Canyet, on the outskirts of 
Badalona, in a family home. Not far from here 
is an old Iberian town and, a little further 
away, the Monastery of Sant Jeroni de la 
Murtra. In this monastery, founded in 1416, it 
was where the Catholic Monarchs received 

Cristobal Colon upon returning from his first 
trip to America. It seems incredible to me that 
near where we are, Colon announced to the kings 
the discovery of a new world. But more than 
five centuries have passed and today I am here 
with my two children, ready to observe the 
sky. It is night and, despite the fact that we 
are practically in the mountains and there are 
no clouds, the light pollution prevents us from 
enjoying a celestial vault in all its 
splendor. But we do get to see some stars and 
constellations. We have a refracting 
telescope, a compass, a universal sky map, a 
flashlight with a red light, and a laptop with 
an astrological program. We have been able to 
clearly see the constellation Leo in the sky 
and observe Jupiter, among other things. 


* I am reviewing some of my astrological texts 
to take advantage of them in a new book and I 
reread the phrases that I contributed to a 
website of famous phrases a while ago. They 
wrote to me and asked me to collaborate with 
them, contributing some phrases in relation to 


astrology. I sent them and they published 
these: 


- "You continue on your way but you come to a 
fork and you don't know which way to go. 

You climb a tree and from there you can see 
which of the two paths is yours. You go down 
and take it. That tree is Astrology. " 


- "With Astrology you can select the best time 
to start a business, but if you intend to put 
a jewelry in the desert, even with the help of 
the stars you will fail." 


- "Astrology is like a good road map: it shows 
you the best way, which is not always the 
shortest or the easiest." 


- "Astrology is like Medicine, it is a 
science-art, not an exact science". 


- "As an astrologer, I do not believe in an 
immovable destiny that we cannot change. I do 
not think of it as a script written by someone 
that we must represent. But from personal 
conviction and experience, I also do not 
believe in the absolute freedom of the 
individual to create his destiny. More Well I 
believe in a middle ground: there is a pre- 
configured destination in its master lines, but 
with which it is possible to interact ". 

* Sally Goddard Blythe, neurophysiologist, says 
in La Vanguardia (Barcelona, Spain): "Movement 
and learning are related". An astrologer 


immediately thinks of house III, as it covers 
both facets: moving, moving and learning, 
studying. 


x Emmanuel Macron has won the French 
presidential elections. In the second round he 
faced Marine Le Pen. For an astrology student, 
planetary transits were apparently better for 
Le Pen, but with primary directions there is 
no doubt: Marine Le Pen was already 
sentenced. In an email from my friend Isaac 
Starkman, who rectified his letter, it was 
already clear. On many occasions, planetary 
transits do not serve to determine the winner 
of a political election. It happened with 
George W. Bush Jr., who beat a John Kerry with 
Jupiter transiting his house X. But the primary 
directions are not wrong: in the Astrological 
Magazine Mercury-3 I predicted a few months 
before the victory of Bush Jr. despite the fact 
that no one believed in him, and he was 
right. The primary addresses (if the letter is 
well rectified), do not admit doubts and have 
no comparison at a predictive level; at least 
in a toss-up prediction as in a political 
election. 


* What do I think of Macron? You have a letter 
from a company executive. With a Jupiter in V 
in sextile to Saturn in VII and in opposition 
to Sun-Mercury in house XI. The ruler of the 
Ascendant (Saturn), is in the VII, denoting 
interest and interaction with others (at the 
company or political level). A strong XI house, 


typical of those who are comfortable working 
as a team. And even more so with the Sun there, 
which is at the end of Sagittarius, as a 
positive and necessary counterpoint to its 
Capricorn Ascendant, which is always a bit 
gray, but also gives Ft an image of 
seriousness, maturity and responsibility, 
despite its youth. . His political experience 
is scarce, so he will impose a presidential 
style as if he were trying to preside over 
the Ford company 


x Today they broadcast on television a 
documentary with new information about the 
famous escape from the Alcatraz prison, which 
occurred on June 11, 1962. No one knows if they 
managed to reach the shore from La Roca or if 
they drowned with the strong marine currents 
of the bay. from San Francisco. In the cinema 
and in literature we have seen fictionalized 
history many times, so to speak, but it does 
not always adjust to reality. The fact is that 
three prisoners escaped from Alcatraz and have 
never been seen again. And their bodies were 
never found. In the documentary that I have 
seen on television it was stated that a photo 
taken in Brazil in the seventies could 
correspond to the Anglin brothers. In fact, 
after seeing the report, one is convinced that 
they escaped and made it safely to land. Well, 
what can astrology say about it? We do not know 
the exact moment when the leak started, so 
raising a horary chart is little more than 
wasting time. And unfortunately we do not have 


the birth time of the three inmates. However, 
only with the day of birth of the three can I 
venture to express a personal opinion. The 
brain behind the escape seems to be that it was 
Frank Morris, born on September 1, 1926. A very 
intelligent guy, with an IQ well above 
average. The transits to their natal planetary 
positions at the time of the flight are very 
negative, affecting their natal Mars in Taurus, 
cursed by sign and by their (broad) opposition 
to Saturn in Scorpio. On the day that Neptune 
escapes, it transits in opposition to Mars, 
Saturn squares Mars, and Mars conjunct natal 
Mars. This triple picture does not allow us to 
be very optimistic, as it is typical of 
accidents, drownings and other physical 
mishaps. In addition, Pluto in transit is 
located on the natal Sun, while Uranus transits 
on the Neptune of its birth chart. The transit 
of Jupiter in opposition to the natal Sun 
justifies the fact of wanting to escape from 
the prison and escape justice. And no notable 
positive interplanetary traffic. In short: 
even without knowing the birth time, this is 
too dark a panorama to be able to think that 
he could escape and achieve freedom. It was a 
toss-up or, worse still, there was too high a 
risk percentage to be able to get away with 
these transits. In my opinion, Morris was 
either drowned or eaten by sharks. In addition, 
he chose a bad time to escape, because in the 
sky Mercury was retrograde and a Square T had 
been formed between three malefics: Mars, 


Saturn and Neptune, who at the same time badly- 
aspected (allow me the expression) to their 
natal Mars. ^ And the Anglin brothers? Clarence 
Anglin was born on May 11, 1931, with Mars at 
15 Â° from Leo, receiving the impact of the 
aforementioned Square T on the day of the 
escape. Very dangerous traffic to risk your 
life in this way. In addition, Pluto transits 
Neptune in its natal chart. The rest is not 
very interesting. I don't think he survived, 
frankly. His brother John, born on May 2, 1930, 
has the Sun at 11 Â° of Taurus, receiving the 
impact of the Square T exactly on that 
point. It is unlikely that he would emerge 
successfully from such a dangerous endeavor. In 
fact, all three also receive the transit of the 
linear nodal axis, which: 15 at 11 <. trem. the 
Leo-Aquarius axis at the time of the escape. It 
is surprising that the three escapees have such 
sensitive and crucial chart points at the same 
time (Morris and Clarence Mars and John the 
Sun) receiving the inharmonic transits of Mars, 
Saturn and Neptune. For me - with the prudence 
of not being able to count on the time of birth 
- they died the same day or night of the 
escape. The photo taken in Brazil of the Anglin 
years after the escape cannot be theirs. 


* Today I exchanged some emails with the 
Spanish writer Fernando Sanchez Drago. He is 
80 years old, but has a very lucid mind and 
enormous energy. He asked me to interpret his 
birth chart and I have done so. He is a cultured 
and intelligent man, without a doubt, although 


very special. Not everyone likes 
him. Curiously, not long ago I had the 
opportunity to interpret the birth chart to 
another person from the world of letters: the 
famous Chilean writer Isabel Allende. She asked 
me. We exchanged several emails. In one of them 
he wrote to me from the Atacama desert, in 


Chile. He told me: "... I am in the Atacama 
desert, northern Chile, similar to the 
planet Mars ... red, hot, dry and crossed by 
paths of crystallized salt". He is a very nice 


person. He sent me his first and last book with 
a very special double dedication. In one it 
says: "For Juan de las Estrellas", and in 
another: "With astral affection." Of course, 
Isabel is an intelligent woman and intuitively 
knows that the stars and, by extension, 
everything astral, influence us. 


* The news of the day is a brutal terrorist 
attack in London (England), which leaves a 
balance of seven people dead and forty-eight 
injured. And as always, the typical aspects of 
irrational events of this nature appear in the 
sky, as I pointed out ten years ago in my World 
Astrology: Sun squaring Neptune and Mars in 
opposition to Saturn, the two malefic planets. 
* A friend-client has asked me for a poem for 
a book she is preparing. He has suggested that 
I write something poetic in relation to a word 
and concept as astrological as destiny. I 
admire poets for their ability to create art 
with words. I have read quite a bit of poetry 
in the past. In Spanish I find Federico Garcia 


Lorca unsurpassed for his depth and 
sensitivity; the best, for me. But I love 
Stephane Mallarme and many other 
poets. However, I have no hobby or skills in 
this regard, or any training to be able to 
correctly string together more than two words 
to make poetry. Likewise, I have sent you my 
poem about Destiny and it is this: 


"I am here, waiting for you. You believe in 
your free will and in your ability to change 
me, but I wait patiently for what is written 
since your birth to be fulfilled. Your dreams 
and illusions are the only thing that does not 
belong to me. Play with them as a child in the 
sand with its seashells and starfish. And then 
close the circle of your life, because with 
your Destiny you have to find yourself " 


Of course, it is a poem without rhyme, it is 
pure prose (poetic, or so I try), and I am sure 
it is very bad and full of amateur poet 
failures, although it did not even come to 
that. But I like it and that's enough. 


x I read in the press that Paul McCartney is 
75 years old. About this, says Julian Ruiz, a 


well-known music critic: "Paul easily achieves 
with his double rhetoric the two faces of the 
typical Gemini ...". If astrology is already 


part of our culture and our lives, whether we 
are astrologers or not. 


ki I watch very little television, almost 
nothing. Some classic movies, some news 


(preferably in English) and some reports and 
documentaries of all kinds. The last thing I 
have seen iS a report on Horacio Pagani, 
manufacturer of super sports cars. It seems 
that he is a true perfectionist, in constant 
search of excellence and virtuosity in all the 
manufacturing and assembly processes of each 
of his car parts. Always dissatisfied, he 
admires Leonardo Da Vinci for his claim to 
unite art and science. Interesting its Sun- 
Saturn conjunction (wide) in Scorpio, which 
will surely have forged its character, and 
especially the Venus-Uranus trigone (union of 
art and science) for what it behaves at the 
aesthetic level. Also relevant is your Mercury 
in Scorpio, in conjunction with Neptune and 
Jupiter and Pluto in good aspect, as well as 
square Uranus. 


* Today I wrote to the Casa Lucio Restaurant in 
Madrid (Spain), whose owner is the well-known 
restaurateur Lucio Blazquez. I ask them about 
the time of birth of the owner, Mr. Blazquez, 
but Lucio says that he doesn't remember the 
time he was born ... Well, I don't remember mine 
either, but they told me he was born at 5:45 
a.m. in the morning and I believe it. Jokes 
aside, I've gotten your birth time from the 
town hall of your birthplace. His letter is 
very clear regarding his character and 
profession. I have promised your daughter 
Maria, very kind and expressive, that I would 
tell her about her own natal chart. I will 
fulfill it. And I also hope to go eat some fried 


eggs at your restaurant, which is your star 
dish - worth the pun - the next time I travel 
to Madrid. The truth is that the recipe is very 
Simple and the ingredients even more so: fresh 
eggs of extra quality, top quality potatoes as 
well, olive oil and a little salt. I don't 
think I left anything behind, because it's very 
easy. I have cooked them many times at home. I 
like to cook, something that comes from my days 
as a single man, when I had to learn not only 
to cook, but also to wash: and iron. But cooking 
is different: culinary art transports you to a 
level of enjoyment of life full of colors, 
smells and flavors, of course. My 
voluminous Larousse Gastronomique is packed 
with handwritten annotations with recipes, 
experiences and gastronomic 
impressions. Dishes that I have tried, created 
and enjoyed, at home or on five continents. And 
this work is also full of press clippings and 
loose notes related to cooking. My nutritional 
and culinary maxim is: less quantity, more 
quality. I love to walk through the Boqueria 
market in Barcelona and buy everything from 
exotic fruits to seasonal black truffles, as 
well as some fresh seafood that I like to 
prepare at home, such as spider crab or 
crab. Every time I go to restaurants less (I 
think I have already been to too many in my 
life) and more I stay at home cooking meals and 
desserts. And you don't need a big budget 
either: I can cook an exquisite pasta only with 
mushrooms, Parmesan cheese, white pepper and 


little else. Even today I have not tasted a 
better tiramisu than mine; nor in Italy. But 
of course, I play with an advantage and at home, 
doing a sports simile: I do it to my liking at 
all levels and ingredients. In short, for me 
cooking goes beyond simple entertainment and 
nutritional survival. 


* Uniting cuisine and astrology: precisely on 
these dates 150 years have passed since the 
famous Supper of the Three Emperors, which 
brought together Wilhelm I of Prussia, Otto von 
Bismarck, Tsar Alexander II of Russia and their 
son in Paris (France). the future Alexander 
III. This great dinner took place on June 7, 
1867 at the Cafe Anglais in Paris. Adolphe 
Duglere - one of the best cooks of the 19th 
century - was the chef in charge of cooking and 
serving the illustrious diners. It appears that 
they served eight of the best wines in the world 
and sixteen excellent dishes. The dinner 
predictably started with the Moon in Leo 
conjunct the star Regulus, something very 
appropriate for a dinner with several crowned 
heads. Also interesting is the conjunction of 
Venus with Pluto in the sign of Taurus for that 
night. The Sun and Mercury in Gemini, a double 
factor that enhances communication, invite you 
to a long after-dinner; And so it was, because 
dinner lasted about eight hours. Gemini is an 
important sign for Duglere (n 03.06. - 1805), 
the chef of the banquet, then hosts its 
Conjunction Sun-Venus. Needless to say, this 
planetary union favors everything that has to 


do with the hedonistic side of human nature, 
including haute cuisine, of course. 


* Exactly sixty years have passed since the 
first Seat 600, the mythical Spanish car of the 
time, left the factory . Its appearance on the 
market was something like motorizing the 
Spanish society of the time, forming part of 
the economic development of the sixties. At 
that time, the Moon was in a conjunction with 
Mercury, more or less open, going from Gemini 
to Cancer. By the way, very appropriate signs: 
movement, displacement, communication 
(Geminis) and family (Cancer), since I help to 
connect, displace and structure families, from 
Simple excursions or long road trips that unite 
family members that they stayed away. Also the 
Sun and Venus are in Cancer. It seems that the 
mechanics of this vehicle were simple but 
efficient. Proof of this is the conjunction 
Mars-Uranus, in trigone to Saturn. 

* Today I received a letter from the Santander 
Civil Registry (Spain) informing me that they 
cannot find the birth certificate of the banker 
Emilio Botin. It's very weird because I gave 
them the (long) full name of Botin and all the 
official data. The person in charge (lawyer: 
Sic) of the Registry tells me that she was 
either not born on that day or was born outside 
of Santander. I have been asking for birth 
certificates all over Spain for many years and 
many times, if any information is incorrect, 
they bother to search the day before or 
after. Anyway, things from the 


bureaucracy. But I am not resigned: I am 
writing you an email in which I ask you to 
please look for the game a day or two before 
or after the date provided. I comment that this 
is what they normally do in towns and cities 
when this situation occurs. I also tell them 
that if they are not obliged to do so, please 
let me know, because in this way I would request 
it directly from the judge in charge of the 
Registry or, perhaps, from the Ministry of 
Justice. It was an Arian impulse, but with the 
will to persistence as well: I want to know 
what time the banker Emilio Botin was born and 
I am not going to give up so easily. My children 
know that, since they were little, I have 
repeated ad nauseam that they should never give 
up, that they should never give up or give in 
to anyone or anything. You have to insist, 
persevere and stand up. This is how a Sun- 
Saturn in Aries sees it in I. And after a few 
days I received the birth certificate of Emilio 
Botin. At my insistence, the Santander Civil 
Registry officials finally found the birth 
certificate. I thank you from here. The data 
(time and source) are already posted on the 
Internet, on the www.astro.com website 


* About the Botin banker's letter: he has a Leo 
Ascendant -reinforced by a sextile of the Sun- 
, in the first degrees of the sign, something 
evident by his manner and by his physique, 
even: his voice is a Leo Ascendant. His Uranus 
in X was noticed in his revolutionary banking 
policy, as Banco Santander began to grow when 


it offered a type of remuneration for current 
account that (I believe) had never been seen 
in Spain at that time. Let us think that the 
weekly meal of the presidents of the seven 
large Spanish banks, which was maintained for 
many years, served precisely to agree on issues 
like this, in order to prevent aggressive trade 
policies -like that of Botin- from reducing the 
margin. of benefits of the big bank. It is 
unfair, of course, but it is so; a true 
financial oligopoly. But Botin wanted to grow 
at all costs and broke the deck. Uranus was 
noted in many other matters, but that is 
history. The Mars-Saturn opposition on the II- 
VIII axis was also relevant and should be 
analyzed. 


* Emilio Botin died suddenly in Madrid on 
September 10, 2014. They say that he was 
obsessed with myocardial infarctions and 
officially died from this cause. However, his 
daughter, now in charge of Banco Santander, 
stated in an interview that she died of an 
infectious disease, acquired in a hunt on the 
African continent. I am not very clear about 
it, really. Either way, with all your money you 
could have opted for high-level astrological 
advice, with topocentric primary directions. I 
have never had an account at your bank. I 
always prefer! to its competitor, BBVA. I guess 
it's because my maternal grandfather - pure 
sentiment - had an account at said blue bank, 
his corporate: color, so to speak. Or for a 


better synastry with this bank, BBVA; or both 
things. 

But if I had an indirect contact with this bank, 
Santander, through what was then its private 
banking subsidiary, for large assets. A client 
of mine invited me to lunch at the bank's 
headquarters, which I think was on the very 
Paseo de Gracia in Barcelona or on an adjacent 
street, I don't remember it well. The fact is 
that by means of astrology I ventured to affirm 
the next evolution of interest rates, contrary 
to the opinion of Mr. Emilio Botin's private 
economist. And time proved me right: astrology 
won the game over the big bank. I tell the 
anecdote in my book Astrology at your 
fingertips 


* Knowing what I know about predictive 
astrology, what would I do if I were a tycoon 
of the banking, of the press or of another 
sector? Find her a competent astrologer, 
specialist in advanced predictive techniques, 
and have her rectify my birth chart to the 
second, along with my Epoch or chart of 
conception. And I would ask for a detailed 
semi-annual or annual report with the dates of 
greatest risk to travel, for example, or to 
expose myself to a greater risk than usual. For 
this, it is necessary to operate in conjunction 
with topocentric primary directions, secondary 
directions, transits , PSSR ... and all the 
techniques that I expose in my work Predictive 
Astrology. And since we can avoid an accident 
with these techniques but not a myocardial 


infarction, I would complement it with a 
coronary CT scan to find out the state of my 
coronary arteries, among other tests that would 
minimize the possibility of death from a 
myocardial infarction or cerebral, for 
example. Or tests to rule out neoplastic 
diseases (cancer) as tumor markers or specific 
TACS. These tests should be done in advance, 
before suspicious directions or traffic, 
obviously. It may sound pretentious, but why 
not say it if I really think so? Emilio Botin 
could be alive today with this astrological 
policy, nothing expensive compared to his 
wealth. Someday, this which sounds like 
astrology-fiction will be a reality. Well, for 
some of my clients (very few, I admit), it is 
already a reality. 


* Returning to the Civil Registry: after thirty 
years of requesting countless birth 
certificates, I have already found 
everything. Once I requested the birth 
certificate of Salvador Dali from the Civil 
Registry of Figueres (Spain) and the judge in 
charge of the registry summoned me to appear 
in a court in Barcelona to explain the reason 
for this request to the officer on duty. I told 
him it was for an astrological study and after 
explaining it to the official, they agreed to 
provide me with a copy of the birth 
certificate. Another case is that of the famous 
Spanish spy Garbo (Joan Pujol Garcia). The 
judge in charge of the registry asked me to 
appear at the Civil Registry of Barcelona, 


located in the Plaza del Duque de Medinaceli, 
to ask me about my request. It was almost an 
interview. There is a reason, a legal 
explanation for this difficulty in being able 
to access Garbo's birth certificate, and it 
has to do with his birth. I leave it here. The 
truth is that apart from the Civil Registry, I 
like to find the time of birth of well-known 
Characters on the Internet, in books or in 
newspaper clippings. By chance I found on the 
Internet the birth certificate of the Mexican 
writer Juan Rulfo, on a website outside our 
astrological world and we immediately included 
it in the portal www.astro.com, which is full 
Of the so>-Called ast rodates.. 

* More about birth certificates: my friend 
Marco Antonio Guevara, from El Salvador, has 
obtained for me the birth certificate of 
Monsenor Romero. The merit is his, who rescued 
it from oblivion for all astrologers. I think 
that some astrologer already mentioned his 
birth time from a biography, but seeing a copy 
of the original birth certificate is always 
different from a fact that may not be 
true. This information was also added to the 
aforementioned website. This year Monsignor 
Romero would have been one hundred years 
old. Marco Antonio Guevara is a former 
journalist, known in El Salvador for his 
journalistic and even political activity, with 
his own office to advise on legal issues. When 
I was visiting the country in 2015, he was kind 
enough to take me to visit the Legislative 


Assembly of El Salvador. His wife, Raquel de 
Guevara, also a friend and firm believer in 
astrology, like Marco Antonio, is the current 
Ombudsman for the Defense of Human Rights in 
El Salvador. A position equivalent to that of 
Ombudsman in Spain. When I was in San Salvador, 
I predicted in person that I would be elected 
to the position, about a year before your 
election. So it was. I explain this prediction 
in one of my latest books. 


* IT see in the digital edition of a newspaper 
on the Internet that the Argentine soccer 
player Leo Messi has married his longtime 
girlfriend, Antonela Roccuzzo. With the Moon in 
Libra and the Sun in Cancer, both have had the 
traditional "if I want" in a hotel in Rosario 
(Argentina). If the time of the link published 
by the press is correct, the Sun will be in 
house VI and the Moon in house IX, in the 
applicative square. Although the moon phase 
(crescent) is favorable on a wedding chart, 
such an exact square is not at all. At some 
point, certain tensions arising from the role 
that each one plays within the relationship may 
surface. The Sun in VI is typical of someone 
very involved in their professional role, with 
their obligations and responsibilities. Here, 
the star king represents the husband. Now it 
is professional football, but tomorrow it can 
be advertising and business: travel, 
commitments and the absorption of his person 
by the VI house. That if: with the familiar 


nuance of Cancer. The Moon, in Libra and raised 
above the Sun in house IX -if the time is 
correct, I insist-, tells us about a wife 
skilled in public relations, immersed in 


travel, cultural interests (fashion, art, 
shows) and in constant movement (house 
IX). Uranus in the fourth house, angular, is 


not very favorable for stability at the family 
level, but it would be necessary to see the 
synastry to confirm this trend. Not for nothing 
has the astrology of relationships always been 
a multi-party game. Of course, I would have 
looked for a better time, but also in the choice 
for a wedding we are limited by time, place 
... and the synastry of the contracting 
parties. Miracles - as I always say - we cannot 
do. 


* About Messi's birth time: at least two natal 
hours have always circulated in our midst. One 
of them, for 8:20 pm, was provided directly to 
me by the Argentine astrologer from Rosario 
(where the footballer was born) Hugo Bonito, 
sadly deceased in 2016. Hugo told me in person 
that the source came directly from the 
family. However, some time later, already in 
2017, I found several sources on the Internet 
that indicated that his birth actually occurred 
a few minutes before six in the morning. And I 
think it is true because the source comes 
directly from the nurses and the doctor who 
attended the delivery. The time seems correct, 
because for their wedding in June 2017 Jupiter 


in transit is just over the natal V house, only 
La Of Ene orbs 


X By the way: the premature death of Hugo 
Bonito caused me infinite sadness. The 
disappearance of an astrologer always hurts, 
because it is like a comrade in arms in this 
all-out fight that is the war for astrology, 
but more so if one gets to know him in 
person. Share! with Hugo some other 
astrological congress. Even in Cadiz we were 
roommates during the Iberian Congress held in 
that city in 2008. 


= The only baroque palace that was for sale 
has been sold in Barcelona: the Moxo Palace, 
which is in the heart of the Gothic Quarter of 
the Catalan capital. At the time it was 
declared a Property of Local Interest. I have 
seen some photographs of the interior, 
perfectly preserved, and the Salon San Mori, 
the main room of the house, caught my 
attention. On the ceiling you can see a painted 
zodiac, perfectly distinguishing the twelve 
Signs. It is right in the center of the 
ceiling, presiding overhead (worth the 
expression, even incorrect) the room. 


* Another building in Barcelona that shows the 
twelve signs of the zodiac is one located on 
Calle Sicilia 392. On the faÃ§ade, above the 
windows, the twelve signs of the zodiac are 
engraved. Perhaps this building - from the 
middle of the 20th century - does not have the 


architectural value of the Moxo Palace, but 
personally I am as interested in it as the 
previous one. 


* My eldest son, Daniel, a Sun in Libra with 
a Leo Ascendant, has taken the so-called 
Selectivity test these days, which is something 
like an exam on several subjects that will 
confirm or not a minimum level to enter the 
university. The result will be known in a few 
days. I already know that he approved, because 
in his letter that day he has the transit of 
Venus over his Midheaven, among other 
things. But I'm not going to tell you, of 
course; it is not case that it relaxes and it 
suspends. I always say that to change the 
future you have to know it; I generally think 
this way - with respect to my clients - to 
change destiny for the better, but it can also 
be the other way around ... 


= Today the Sun has entered Cancer. Summer 
begins in the Northern Hemisphere. I read in 
the press that the multinational alcoholic 
beverages 

Diageo buys George Clooney his brand of tequila 
for 1 billion US dollars. Clooney and a couple 
of other friends founded a small distillery a 
few years ago and its success - due in large 
part to this actor's fame - has been 
spectacular. Of course, in the chart of this 
Sun in Taurus (in addition, in house II) such 
a fact is well reflected: Uranus in transit is 
in conjunction with the cusp of the natal house 


II, an almost exact aspect. The effect of it 
comes to be as income (house IT) sudden 
(Uranus). It is from a book. George Clooney and 
I share a Pisces Ascendant, albeit to different 
degrees. When in 2015 - had 2016 the same 
traffic in my natal chart all that happened was 
a change of apartment. Increased income and 
payments when buying a new apartment and 
selling another. But not for 1,000 million 
dollars. And without benefits: a simple change. 


* Today I travel to Madrid on the AVE. A quick 
round trip from Barcelona, to give a 
presentation at an astrology congress in the 
capital. The organizer of the event invited me, 
since I did not present a presentation to be 
selected. They also invited me to participate 
the previous year in the congress in Vigo 
(Spain), but I declined the offer because it 
coincides with my saint. Lately - except for 
some exceptions - I no longer usually present 
papers at congresses. If they invite me, I go 
or I do not go: according to traffic and other 
conditions. For the Madrid congress, the 
organizer asked me for my presentation to deal 
with something about astrology, business and 
company, with the world context as a 
backdrop. It is a technical subject, with a 
world astrology background that not everyone 
understands. Furthermore, world forecasts, if 
they are not very good, are not always well 
Suited by the public. I guess it's a very human 
thing. On the other hand, one always runs the 
risk of not being understood if the exhibition 


is very complex, but I prefer that to giving a 
presentation that all audiences can 
understand. A high-level astrology congress 
should not contemplate plain, easy and (too) 
popular topics. Without contributing something 
new: concepts, techniques, research, we will 
not achieve anything in our beloved astrology. 


* The truth is that many people associate my 
name or my work in this field with business 
astrology. They believe that it is my specialty 
or that I am especially interested in this 
branch, but nothing is further from the 
truth. It is true that at the time I wrote a 
pioneering book, gave presentations, 
imparted! courses and wrote articles on the 
subject, but nothing else. All this was 
motivated and born from the consultations of 
many businessmen, who forced him to develop 
concepts and techniques to respond to their 
demands. Not always original, of course, but 
adapted or rescued from other astrologers and 


from other times. My book Astrologia 
Empresarial , published in 2008 by Ediciones 
Obelisco, has become popular in our 


environment. However, I am not interested in 
going further, the subject bores me solemnly 
at this point. I think of that book and of my 
work in that astrological branch as having sown 
a seed, but I do not intend to stay to till the 
land or to gather the fruit. I am more 
interested in other topics: world astrology or 
astrological prediction with advanced methods, 
like the ones I expose in my book in 


English Predictive Astrology. And think, study 
and work on new ideas within our subject. But 
astrology and business, no longer. At this 
point, I am neither interested in nor would I 
accept to advise any employer at this level on 
a continuous basis. I leave it for other 
astrologers. And that I always receive offers 
to collaborate with businessmen or investors 
predicting what the stock market, oil and other 
markets will do. But I always say no. And if 
ever any investor or speculator reads these 
lines, you already know the answer: no. Life 
is short and there are other better things 
waiting for us out there. Money is not 
everything. Who can match a desert at night 
with its starry sky? 


* Going back to the congresses: when I started 
going to this type of event, some twenty years 
ago, I was one of the youngest astrologers. New 
sap. Years have passed and now I belong to the 
middle segment. Not to the most veteran, 
elderly or almost some of them, but to those 
of more or less middle age. I'm glad to know 
that the new promises are now younger 
astrologers. But make no mistake about these: 
if they want to compete with me they must be 
willing to live astrology twenty-four hours a 
day, to breathe it and obsess over it like Don 
Quixote with Dulcinea. 


* Speaking of veteran astrologers: throughout 
my life as an astrologer I have met more than 
once with seasoned astrologers, with years of 


experience who, each in their own way, have 
told me about their disconnection with 
astrology. They have told me about a supposed 
evolutionary process that has made them reach 
a point where they no longer looked at their 
letter or their traffic or anything. They have 
seen life naked again, devoid of astrological 
perspective. For me he is a self-deception, who 
is precisely in the antipodes of the true, 
authentic and really evolutionary process, and 
that is none other than to go further and 
continue studying, investigating and wondering 
things. To believe that you already know too 
much, that you are already immune to evil 
transits because you are an astrologer or 
because you already know the scope of your 
birth chart is a real aberration. Humanly, 
understandable, but without ceasing to be a 
human error. There is no goal here. And if at 
some point you think that you already know 
everything, that is the beginning of the end 
as an astrologer: the downhill begins and the 
involutional process that will make you 
regress. 


* By the way, speaking of human errors: I am 
not satisfied at all with my first work, an 
astrobiography on Velazquez, which I wrote when 
I was in my early twenties. Today, I consider 
it an astrological-intellectual sin of 
youth. Today, in an afternoon I would rewrite 
it much better and without lifting my pen from 
the paper. But it no longer makes sense, of 
course. On the other hand, I am very satisfied 


with my essay on Quevedo, which I wrote many 
years later. It is titled El horoscopo de 
Quevedo and can be downloaded for free from my 
website. 


* Velazquez: some researchers of his work 
suggest that his masterpiece, Las 
Meninas, hides a certain astrological 


symbolism. They point out that joining the five 
main figures in the painting with imaginary 
lines, the constellation Corona Borealis is 
obtained. This is not at all unreasonable as 
it seems that Diego Velazquez had in his 
library works of astrology such as the Summa 
Astrologica, by Antonio de Najera. I have been 
able to read this work in the past and it is a 
text with astrological content. If Velazquez 
kept this work, he must have been interested 
in this matter, without a doubt. 


* A shocking news appears in the media: a 
human chain of 8 0 people prevents a family 
from drowning on a beach in Panama City, 
Florida (USA). Without a doubt, an atypical 
event, but typically of the New Age of Aquarius 


* I read in the press that the father of the 
controversial soccer coach Jose Mourinho has 
passed away. The traffic for the date suggests 
that Mourinho (son) was born a few minutes 
before 7:00 in the morning, which is the 
official time that we know. In this way, Pluto 
in transit would be in conjunction with the 
Ascendant (opposition to the Descendant) and 


Saturn, in transit as well, would be located 
at the cusp of the XII house. Also the transit 
of Mars would be closer to the Descendant. This 
is how all rectification works: advance or 
delay the time of birth to match settings 
clearly related to the event in question with 
the birth map; and with the minimum orb always. 


= In this Diary I do not write down any 
information regarding my consultants. By 
discretion. Unless the query type has something 
extraordinary and does not reveal names or 
confidential data. This is the case of a woman 
who lives in Guayaquil, Ecuador, and who asked 
me today by email if she could select the date 
for the birth of her nephew or niece, who will 
be born soon. The fact is that with his first 
and only child to date, he already looks for 
the best moment for him to 

The doctor will perform the cesarean section, 
alia in 2012. I already tell this anecdote in 
one of my books, so I don't want to repeat 
myself. This same client recently asked me to 
calculate a fertile day schedule for each 
month. That is to say: the days when the 
conception of a child is more likely. For this, 
the period in which the woman is ovulating is 
considered together with the dates in which the 
Moon and the Sun form the same angle as at 
birth, which is the well-known method of Dr. 
Eugene Jonas. And there is another anecdote 
that I also tell in one of my books referring 
to another client: conception did not 
Occur 


after trying by all means and for a long time 
and recommend when to try it. And she got 
pregnant. The child will be twenty-two or 
twenty-four years old today. And there is 
another completely different case, of a 
consultant who came to see me at my office in 
Barcelona, although she lives in India: 
she wanted me to calculate a 

system for not getting pregnant, according to 
an old theory that Linda Goodman describes in 
one of her books; nothing new, of course. He 
asked me to calculate the dates for more than 
two years. 


* I guess some friends and family thought there 
should have been 

I have devoted all my energy, time and 
intellectual resources (few, many or none) to 
a more economically advantageous type of 
activity. But the truth is that I do not have 
the slightest intention of earning a single 
Euro or Dollar that I cannot spend in life. Nor 
do I want to work for the Treasury. Onassis' 
millions of dollars still exist, someone has 
them and spends and enjoys them, but the Greek 
millionaire who earned them decades ago is no 
longer with us since 1975. As Hedy Lamarr said: 
"T advise everyone not to save: spend money. 
Most people spend their lives saving and in the 
end end up leaving money to others. Money is 
to be enjoyed. " And I say: money comes and 
goes, but what 

I do with astrology it stays. At least someone 
will be able to read some of my books long after 


I am no longer in this world. And if by putting 
letters together and trying to make sense of 
my astrological words I can be of use to 
someone, now or in the future, I already have 
my reward today. But while that comes, I enjoy 
what I do. And there is nothing that I like 
more than astrology. ^ What could you ask for 


more? 
* This year the prestigious -not to say 
mythical- Argentine publishing house Kier 


is going to publish a book on horary astrology, 
which ended a few months ago. It will be the 
second to publish in this editorial. And I just 
wrote another text, another astrology book, on 
elective astrology. Besides, my work Astrology 
and Relations , by Sincronia Editorial , has 
just appeared on the market . And I have in my 
portfolio a new book with Boris Cristoff, which 
is pending revision and publication. I also 
write this diary, which also counts. I try to 
improve myself: study more, research more, 
write more with each passing year. Nobody wins 
a Tour de France when they are 50 years old, 
but Don Quixote cannot be written when they are 
30. If the first return of Saturn (around 
thirty) marks our physical zenith, the second 


return (near sixty) should mark our 
intellectual zenith. . Around the second return 
of Saturn, Picasso 
painted Guernica, Velazquez Las Meninas and 


Cervantes wrote the first part of Don 
Quixote. However, if Cervantes showed off at 
58 years of age with that first part, but he 


did so in the second, which he already wrote 
when he was 68 years old. I have always found 
the second part of Don Quixote better, although 
this is my personal opinion, of course. 


* Returning to age: yes, I know that the maximum 
strength of a chess player is reached around 
35 years of age, but it is that factors such 
as life experience and other important 
conditions for much higher tasks do not 
intervene in the game of chess, how to do 


astrology (forgive me the amateurs or 
professionals of the 64-square board). Chess is 
calculation, memory, combination ... and a 


machine can replicate a human very well at 
that. Ask Kasparov. But it cannot overcome us 
by interpreting a natal chart or advising a 
client in the face of a specific personal or 
professional problem. 


* These days I have been in contact with 
astrology in Cuba. I have reached an agreement 
with the Cuban astrologer Leonel Verdeja to 
teach a double astrology seminar in Havana 
(Cuba) in June 2018. It is expected to be held 
at the Museo del Naipe or at another official 
center in the capital. I will not charge 
anything to give this course. And I intend to 
carry a good batch of books that my publishers 
give me as gifts for students who need them. At 
the most, I will accept a coffee in return. I 
was already fifteen days in Cuba in 1996. I did 
not go on tourism, but with a commercial visa, 
to do some business for a company with which I 


collaborated. Nor is it the first contact I 
have with Cuban astrologers. Around 1999, 
approximately, when I was president of 
the Astrology Association of Catalonia, a lady 
wrote me a letter asking for books for her and 
for a small group of astrology students. I sent 
him a small batch of books, including manuals 
and other reference works, paying out of pocket 
for the books - which were not my own - and the 
postage. I hope that this Caribbean island will 
be a country where astrology is studied and 
practiced in the near future. The last 
generations of Cubans have enjoyed in recent 
times a solid, public and free instruction, and 
for the most part they have a culture that will 
allow them to connect with astrology easily. 


* I like Cuba. When they ask me in what place 
and time - apart from the current one - I would 
have liked to live, I always answer that there 
are two: the Paris of the Belle Epoque and the 
Cuba of the forties and fifties of the 
twentieth century. Yes, I know that many 
children were out of school and that the mafia 
and corruption were rampant in the Pearl of the 
Antilles. But also 


there was atrue Liberty ' the 
possibility 

of do business * from 
prosper, in all levels. Yes,I 

I would vividThe timefromThe 
like to 


have 


Golden of the forties 
havana T 


fifty. If one thinks of returning to the 
island, one thinks of Rafael Alberti and a 
stanza of his poem A ship has come from 
Havana: I am going to the Antilles through seas 
of bitter mint! 


* Today I have donated twenty-seven copies of 
three of my books to nine Catalan prisons. The 
opportunity has arisen and I have sent them to 
the dependencies of the General Directorate of 
Penitentiary Services of the Generalitat de 
Cataluna. Its offices are on Arago street in 
Barcelona (Spain). I hope to do the same with 
other prisons in Spain. I don't think astrology 
is especially dangerous for inmates who go into 
it. Many will have a natural curiosity for the 
twelve astrological signs and for everything 
that lies behind. Some will want to find out 
if their prison situation is going to 
change; that is to say: if they are going to 
leave prison soon. It is very logical and 
human, of course. By the way, in 2005, I think 
I remember, my prediction was correct with 
respect to Mario Conde: I said that he could 
be released from prison and he was. He 
confirmed it on his blog, where he mentions and 
tells me this anecdote. Mr. Conde is an old 
friend, whom I have known for many years, when 


he wrote the astrological column for his MC 
magazine. Earlier I said that many prisoners 
will be interested in my books because of their 
zodiac signs and that some will want to find 
out, from their letter, if they will be 
released soon. And a few who have read enough 
may come to think that it is possible that with 
predictive astrology they can circumvent the 
dangers of reoffending, once out of jail. If 
any of them can come to think that they can 
firmly guide their steps outside the law with 
the help of astrology, they will make a serious 
mistake. The level that they would need to do 
this 1s so high that they would have to invest 
so many years in the study of this subject that 
it would not compensate them. The one who 
steals or scams looks for shortcuts âand 
elevators in life and in astrology there are 
none; all are long winding paths and stairs 
that must be climbed on foot. Furthermore, 
although they could steal a jewelry store with 
good traffic and addresses and not be caught 
at that time, no one can guarantee that weeks 
or months later, with other traffic and worse 
addresses, they would not be arrested. 


x Mentioning Mario Conde: a few days ago we 
wrote via email. We have exchanged a few 
words. We will meet in the near future in 
Madrid, to chat and have a coffee. 


X Today I received an edition of James 
Wilson's Dictionary of Astrology in the 
mail . It is a magnificent copy of a cloth 


edition of AH Roffe & Co., printed in 1885 in 
Boston (Massachusetts, USA). For a book lover 
like me, having this copy in hand is a luxury: 
the touch, the smell even, everything takes me 
to another time, when at the end of the 19th 
century American astrology struggled to break 
through. This classic work, one of the best 
astrology dictionaries ever made, has earned a 
Space in my library. Years ago I had Wilson's 
dictionary in a modern edition, but I was 
looking for a long time to buy this one from 
1885, one of the best editions. I bought it at 
a good price at a Benson (Arizona, USA) 
bookstore that was about to close. I made an 
offer to its owner and I accept. And it arrives 
by mail with the Moon in Sagittarius, walking, 
on tiptoe, my house IX, in trigone to my natal 
Sun. Venus passes, at the same time, by my 
house III, promoting positive news, either by 
mail, email or other means; and more being a 
book, something from home III. 


* About. my astrological library: in the past I 
bought everything and more, in Spanish, 
English, French and even in languages that I 
barely understood. I got to have more than 
fifteen hundred astrology books. But donate 
most of it to the Biblioteca de Cataluna. In 
fact, gather my best books with Gerardo Sanchez 
, which inherits from his widow, Dona Helena 
Picard - and make with those responsible for 
this (the largest in Catalonia, in the National 
Library), public library the creation of 
the Library Astrologica by Juan Estadella and 


Gerardo Sanchez , as a collection of astrology 
books that could not be disintegrated, among 
other stipulations. A formal donation 
agreement was signed, signed by both parties 
and fifteen years later the books are still 
available to all those astrological scholars 
who want to consult them. There are unique or 
hardly available books in the rooms of Spanish 
libraries. This year marks exactly fifteen 
years since the donation. 

Now my library is limited to a few reference 
works, along with a few classics. I don't even 
have copies of all my works (almost 25 
published in 2017), only the main ones or my 
favorites. By the way: they say that one's 
books are like one's own children: there are 
no favorites. But I don't know if it really 
is. One of my favorite works is my World 
Astrology book . I think it is one of the best, 
although my Business Astrology may be more 
popular, because it iS a pioneering book and 
because it belongs to an astrological branch 
to which a lot of attention is paid; after all, 
business and money always matter. Another book 
that I am very satisfied with is The Age of 


Aquarius . And Predictive Astrology , for 
other reasons. But among all of them, my 
favorite work is Astrology at your 


fingertips. My things, I guess. 


* More about my current astrological library: 
it is rare that I add new books to my shelves, 
whether they are editorial novelties or old 
editions. What books rest on my shelves? Some 


of astronomy, Gouchon's Astrological 
Dictionary , Wilson's and 
the Devore Astrological Encyclopedia , Kier 
version (I prefer it to the version of the Argos 
Editorial, from 1951 I think I remember, which 
had another name). The Astrology 
Rational, Adolf Weiss. I also have a copy of 
my New Astrology Manual , along with another 
on Transits and Solar Revolution, also by my 


author. A copy of Vendel Polich's The 
Topocentric System . Another book of 
mine: Predictive Astrology. And of 


course, World Astrology and Business 
Astrology. And Astrology at your fingertips as 
well! as Predictions for the 2Åst century. I 
forgot about El Horoscopo de Quevedo, although 
it is not properly a book. I also keep some 
very recent books, such as Astrology and 
Relationships , but not all new and not 
forever. I have an authentic (and in very good 
condition) copy of the first issue of the 
French astrology magazine Les Cahiers 
Astrologiques , from 1938, a copy of the Tralte 
d'Astro-Biologie by K. E. Krafft and some books 
by one of my authors favorites: Alexandre 
Volguine. For example: L'Astrologle chez les 
Mayas et les Azteques and Journal d'un 
Astrologue (more or less conscious inspiration 
for this Diary). And other works promoted by 
Volguine from the address of his famous 
magazine: Ma vie devant les astres (text 
extracted from the 


Gallica Astrology by Morin) and Traite des 
Revolutions Solaires, by Junctin de Florence 


(old work). I also keep in my library a copy 
of Andre Barbault's first work: Astrologie 
Meteorologigque . It is a very rare and 


difficult to find work, published in 1945 and 
of which there are very few copies in 
circulation. Yes, you can see a certain 
collector spirit here, but it is much more than 
collecting, because many works serve as 
inspiration and others as a reference book. I 
own copy No. 93 of the numbered edition, 
limited in total to 330 copies, of the Tractat 
d'Astrologia de Bartomeu de Tresbens. I had the 
pleasure of cutting the leaves, as the work was 
virgin. It is an old work, several centuries 
ago, written in Catalan and published in two 
volumes. Of course: I have a copy of Christian 
Astrology, William Lilly's classic, Regulus 
edition. And El Hombre y su Estrella, by N. 
Sementowsky-Kurilo, from Editorial Planeta, 
1960 edition (for my taste, the best in terms 


of presence). And La Astrologia como Ciencia 
Oculta, by Oscar Adler (de Kier), El Sistema 
Astrologico, by the Peruvian Rodolfo 


Hinostroza, plus three works by Louis de Wohl: 
two in English (little known in Spain) and one 
in Spanish. From the French author Hades I have 
his Jours et nuits d'un astrologue . I keep 
some books for sentimental reasons. For 
example: the Astrological Yearbook 1992, by 
Boris Cristoff, his Precessional Astrology and 
our Joint book Predicciones Kier 2014. 


They also have sentimental value for me, works 
such as Psychoastrology, by Professor Lester, 
a pioneer of astrology in Spain, whom I already 
knew. at the end of his career as an 
astrologer. Or a book by Andre Barbault on 
planetary cycles that I dedicate myself to. I 
have another one from MN Kedar, a well-known 
Hindu astrologer and author, that I signed and 
gave away on the occasion of my trip to India 
in 2017. And there is no more. 


* I always reread some of the classics in my 
astrological library. Today I have seen in 
the Devore Astrological Encyclopedia a 
reference and differentiation with respect to 
axis II-VIII. It says something like that house 
II are the "assets" and house VIII the 
"liabilities", as if it were a balance 
sheet. The idea is original, very accounting, 
but debatable. 


* I just found and reread an email from a 
former student, Carolina. He writes me an email 
from the Joan Maragall Library in Barcelona. He 
tells me: You are being studied live and 
direct! Apparently, in front of her a young man 
is taking notes in a notebook, along with one 
of my books and a printed astrological chart 

Of course, it is always gratifying to see 
how one's work can be useful to others. I 
always get news like this. For example: I am 
aware that my book The Age of Aquarius is 
mentioned in a university thesis on Tourism, 
from the National University of the 


South (Department of Geography and Tourism), 
from Bahia Blanca (Argentina). Besides, I like 
that my readers write to me. Any opinion, 
comment or question about what one does and 
writes in our astrological world is always 
positive. I respond to all emails and I always 
have a word for the student who asks me for 
advice or guidance on something: a book, a 
technique and more. 


* Sun at 17 Â° Cancer. Today Sunday I have 
visited, for the umpteenth time, the Sagrada 
Familia in Barcelona. It was an engagement and 
a family visit. I could not choose the day and 
the Moon was in Capricorn, without harmonic 
aspects that add a little sugar. And in my 
companions I have noticed a (logical) contained 
emotional impact, somewhat cold, 
dispassionate, although deep and motivated at 
the same time, it is true. It is unavoidable. I 
try to avoid its effect: professional 
deformation, but it is difficult. In favor of 
that day, if possible, I can say that there was 
a Sun-Neptune trigone, which adds sensitivity 
and spirituality to what is experienced, and a 
Mercury-Venus sextile, which also favors such 
a cultural outlet. In short, it is what it is. 


* More about the visit to the Sagrada Familia 
temple: I was surprised by the central nave of 
the basilica. Beyond its height and breadth, 
it is the inclined pillars, with their ball 
joints and connections towards the sky, which 
in my opinion is the most amazing and 


original. It looks like the structure of a tree 
-0f many trees-, with that structural 
arborization, with larger and smaller branches 
later, vertically, that support the rest of the 
structure. It is not surprising this imitation 
or, rather, inspiration in nature. Gaudi used 
to say: "Originality consists in the return to 


the origin; thus, original is that which 
returns to the simplicity of the first 
solutions". And I add: what more original than 


the very nature, principle and origin of all 
human creation? The birth chart of this 
universal genius of architecture is very 
interesting and deserves an in-depth study. The 
sextile of Mercury (in Gemini) to the Ascendant 
is noted, as well as its four planets on axis 
III-IV, with their fortunate oppositions, which 
add intellectual stimulation. Of course, he was 
not a featherweight on an intellectual 
level. The Sun in the 11th house justifies the 
role in his life of his protectors, such as 
Count Guell, his patron. 


* Today I met my old printer, Pepe. His 
workshop has always been called Topegrafic and 
he still collaborates with me from time to 
time. I met him when I lived in Gran Via and 
he had his printing press at the beginning of 
Barcelona's Diagonal. Some of my early books 
have come off their machines. It was a time (in 
the mid and late nineties of last century) when 
I dared to be a small editor. From some title, 
such as His Sign of the Zodlac and his 
Ascendant , the book distributor Disneu sold 


me up to 300 or 400 books in a month. My books 
were even sold at the kiosks on the Ramblas and 
at the airport. It was still a good time to 
sell popular astrology books, still far from - 
although already incipient - the Internet boom 
that ended with a good part of the sale of 
magazines and paper books. Today the purchase 
is more selective and the editor has to think 
very well what he edits to avoid losing 
money. I suppose that an astrology manual will 
always be sold, because it is more comfortable 
to study, quickly turning the pages back and 
forth, being able to make annotations and 
others. But some texts are almost exclusively 
consumed digitally. And sometimes unchecked 
and hacked. On a cultural level, it is a step 
backwards. Anyone can publish something on the 
Internet, but without an editorial filter, many 
times the resulting product is worthless. Time 
also counts and wasting it reading (for free) 
something worthless is not very smart. And it's 


free, yes, but it may not contribute 
anything. Or even worse: it can misinform 
instead of informing and providing 


knowledge. It is a difficult problem to solve. 


* My eldest son, Daniel, will finally study 
chemistry at the University of Barcelona from 
September. I passed the Selectivity in June, 
as I had already planned. Many months before 
choosing this Option -(chemrstry)-- study your 
birth chart to define a clear vocational and 
professional profile. And, based on this, 
jointly choose - he is the one who will study, 


after all - a suitable university degree. In 
his case it was clear from the whole of his 
subject that it should be a scientific 
option. A hidden work (regent of the MC in 
XII), research type, with the use of technology 
(Uranus in the VI house), such as advanced 
instruments, tools, machines and even specific 
software. With your Neptune in conjunction with 


house VI, all work in laboratories, 
pharmaceutical, chemical, oil or gas companies, 
or even biochemistry, is more than 


possible. And there are other more specific 
indicators that I discussed with him at the 
time that resize all this information and make 
it more specific, more concrete. But it belongs 
to my son, so I leave it here. 


* Looking at it from my birth chart, leaving 
aside my son's letter, I already knew that he 
would pass high school without dragging any 
Subjects and that he would pass the PAU. And 
that it would be accepted in the university 
chosen as the first option (the UB). On my 
radix I had this primary address for mid- 
September: V house sextile Jupiter (orb: 0). It 


is, clegar; house V. chi idren), 60 ~* (good 
aspect: something positive) and Jupiter 
(success, satisfaction). This topocentric 


primary direction could only reflect the 
(smooth) entrance into the university. Also, I 
have Jupiter in the V house in my natal 
chart. Regarding the primary directions: 
statistically speaking it is highly unlikely 
that these very precise aspects will occur 


randomly on a given date: the cusps move at the 
rate of 1 'of arc per week, so the fact that a 
V house aspect (children) in major aspect 
(there are only 5) with a planet (there are 
only 10) is somewhat remote. And it should 
involve beneficial planets, preferably, or 
neutral ones. That is to say: it is not 
something accidental, but causal. 


* Even more about university and children: my 
youngest son, Alex, would have to enter (in 
theory) the university exactly in September 
2020. What primary address do I have 
then? House V (children) 120 Â° (something 
positive) Uranus (this planet is neutral, but 
being linked with a trigone with the V it 
becomes positive). And I already know that he 
will enter the university three years before 
that happens, without delays for repeating 
courses or other setbacks. ^ Isn't that an 
advantage? I see it that way. Of course, I 
don't say anything to them, lest they fall 
asleep and trust Pope's prediction and end up 
changing their destiny by knowing him 
beforehand. As I always say, in order to change 
our destiny, it is a condition sine qua non 
to know that pre-programming of our future in 
the form of a clear trend or possible isolated 
event. 


* Speaking of chemistry: curiously today I 
found in the library of my father's house in 
Canyet (Badalona, Spain) a kind of little book 
in the form of an agenda from 1906, in French, 


entitled Chimie (chemistry, in French), which 
It has some beautiful drawings of the signs of 
the zodiac. They are only the symbols of the 
Sign that enters each month, but it is still 
curious. For example, for the sign of Cancer 
we have in small the typical symbol and the 
drawing of a crab. Below, the lunar phases for 
June 1906 and a kind of saints for each day: of 
the month. The rest of the book is a kind of 
chemistry agenda-memorandum, among other 
things. This agenda is part of 
the Netol company library, which my father 
bought back in 1981 when the company was 
liquidated. He still keeps the books 
today. There are hundreds of chemistry books, 
diaries, and other documents. 


$ Speaking or writing, rather, about houses 
and books: I have the cusp of my house IV in 
Geminis and I can say that what most marked my 
childhood, in general, were the books that I 
had at my disposal in the family library 

encyclopedias, biographies, essay books, 
novels and a myriad of works that I devoured 
when I was just a few years old. There was no 
Internet, of course. And I am glad that I was 
born into this generation and that I was able 
to fill my time with books instead of online 
Internet games. It is an inheritance that still 
weighs on me, for the good I believe, and that 
awakened my love for books. What's more: if I 
write this Diary now, it is due to my past as 
a reader. My teachers were surprised in their 
day that at the age of ten or twelve I already 


read works of a thousand pages such as Los 
cipreses believe in God, by Jose Maria 
Gironella. 


* Coincidentally, many years after having 
read this Spanish postwar work, I met its 
author (Jose Maria Gironella), whom I came to 
visit at his home in Arenys de Mar (Barcelona, 
Spain). I went with a journalist friend who 
knew him and we spent an afternoon chatting 
with him. I think it was in 1999. At that time 
he lived with his wife in an apartment and had 
his library and his place of work, where he 
wrote, in another apartment, but on the same 
landing of the building where he lived. He told 
us many anecdotes and it was really a luxury 
meeting him. He died about four years later, 
in 2003. Next December he would have turned 
100. 


* More about my childhood: apart from being 
among books, I was lucky enough to be born into 
a generation in which games were real games: 
we went out to the streets, ran, we fought, we 
went on a bicycle and even on a motorcycle and 
we looked for lizards and snakes. And for a 
snack, a piece of bread with chocolate. No 
industrial pastries or snacks that come in 
cardboard or plastic boxes. And I think it was 
really fortunate, because today, the sedentary 
life of most of our young people, together with 
a diet full of unhealthy fats, sugars and salt, 
slowly clogs their arteries. And truly, we are 
as old as our arteries. This kind of life, 


these habits, are a time bomb. We are all 
responsible for this: governments, companies 
and consumers. ^ Until when? 


* My grandparents, Jaime and Joaguin, had the 
Sun in Scorpio and Libra, respectively. I have 
two children, both male, and one of them, 
Daniel, has the Sun in Libra, and the other, 
Alex, in Scorpio. ^ Just a coincidence? 


* NASA today shared with the world some 
wonderful images of the Great Red Spot of 
Jupiter. The Juno probe has been able to 
capture this storm on its surface, which causes 
these changes in shape and color. This spot is 
about 16,350 kilometers wide and may have 
existed for more than 300 years. Astrologers 
are also interested in this news. We have 
looked at the sky for a longer time than 


astronomers - their science was separated from 
astrology - and we will continue to do so in 
the future. 

5 Maryam Mirzakhani, the first woman to 


receive the Fields Medal, which is the 
equivalent of the Nobel Prize in Mathematics, 
has died. Cancer ends the life of this 
professor of Mathematics at Stanford University 
(USA). A great loss for the exact sciences. Of 
Iranian origin, he emigrated while still young 
to the United States from 

America, where he got a doctorate. His field 
of study seems to be that he was between 
algebraic and differential geometry. One of his 


favorite phrases was: "The beauty of 
Mathematics is only shown to the most patient 
followers." It is curious that he alludes to 
patience as a virtue of those who enjoy this 
science. In some of my books I mention that the 
sign of Taurus is clearly related to the 
science of numbers. And this sign has patience 
as one of its basic characteristics, of 
course. And Maryam herself was born with the 
Sun in Taurus, in conjunction with Mercury 
(retrograde), in the same sign. It is not a 
handicap to have Mercury retrograde; it is 
more: perhaps it is not so direct - never better 
said - at the communication level nor does it 
process the information and stand out 
intellectually with a blinding brilliance, but 
its centripetal energy, which is not 
centrifugal, is the one indicated to reflect 
and deepen on any matter. I do not know her 
birth chart (the time of birth is not known), 
but an interplanetary configuration can tell 
us something: she was the owner of a Square T, 
which fed her ambition and desire to 
progress. In fact, Mercury is part of this 
figure, along with Saturn and Uranus. It is 
further proof of how positive the inharmonious 
aspects are sometimes. They make us better, 
even though they make us sweat and cry blood 
many times. 


s Speaking of mathematicians: I am struck by 
the Russian mathematician Grigori Perelman. It 
seems that one of his specialties is 
topology. It is claimed to have solved the 


Poincare conjecture. He has rejected the Fields 
Medal and any public recognition or financial 
award. He says that he is not interested in 
fame or money and it seems that he lives with 
his mother in their small apartment in Saint 
Petersburg (Russia). He was born in 1966 with 
the Sun at 22 * Gerini, bur-hie natal hour as 
uncertain or insecure. I hope to be able to 
study your natal chart but, for now, I can 
already see how your intuitive Mercury 
manifests itself in Cancer, in conjunction with 
Jupiter and in sextile with Uranus. 


x I have read that the Portuguese Americo 
Amorim, the king of cork, passed away. He built 
his fortune from the (light) bark of the cork 
oak, but he became the richest man in 
Portugal. He had the Sun in Cancer, along with 
three more planets in that sign. Cancer's 
family sense floated like cork in his 
professional day to day: brothers, sons and 
nephews were part of the company. Despite his 
specialization in this natural material (cork), 
his business maxim was this: "Never depend on 
a Single product or a single market, or a single 
currency, or a single customer." And this 
philosophy underlies his extended planetary 
model: seven planets in different signs (and 
possibly as many houses). It's very basic, but 
it probably has a lot to do with your business 
idea. 


* A new terrorist attack in Egypt. Two European 
tourists have died in Hurghada, on the coast 


washed by the Red Sea. I was precisely in this 
town in March 2015, to fulfill my solar 
revolution in those latitudes. I remember that 
there is a great tourist infrastructure, with 
many western hotels and visitors. It is a shame 
that attacks like these destroy the tourist 
fabric of a country that depends on it to 
survive. Religious radicalism, wherever it 
comes from, is a true cancer in this 21st 
century. In the sky, Sun and Mars conjunct, 
Square Uranus: an explosive combination. I 
insist: in my book World Astrology I already 
pointed out ten years ago that this type of 
violent interplanetary relationships almost 
always appear when there are these types of 
events. 


* One of these days I want to visit Aix-en- 
Provence (France), a place that my admired Jean 
Baptiste Morin traveled in his youth, when he 
was studying in this city. Last year I visited 
his hometown, Villefranche-sur-Saone, and I 
liked it. I am a lover of France, with its 
picturesque villages, especially those in the 
southeast. Before he said "my admired JB 
Morin". More than once I have been interviewed 
for an astrological magazine, on paper and on 
the Internet, and they have asked me which 
astrologer I admire. I really don't admire 
anyone, sorry to say, but Morin is a good 
candidate for it. I would have liked to meet 
him and have a good Beaujolais wine with him in 
seventeenth-century France. It would have been 
a very helpful conversation; at least for 


me. Although I do not know if for purely 
historical reasons, astrological or 
both. There are other astrologers for whom I 
have great respect. None is contemporary, but 
from the past. Louis De Wohl is one of them. I 
understand that excessive and gratuitous 
admiration leads nowhere, and is unproductive 
or emasculating. Better to go your own way, 
without looking too far to the side. My Sun in 
Aries cannot hide, of course. 


As I have said, within the astrological 
world the word admire does not appear in my 
dictionary or, if it is there, I do not use it 
too much. But personally, what I admire in a 
person, man or woman, is not intelligence or 
any other seemingly spectacular or brilliant 
virtue, but honesty and personal dignity. In 
this order. And they are also a priority for 
me, on a personal and professional level. It 
is my way of being, half innate and half 
chosen. And it is the motto of my house, what 
I have tried to instill in my two children. 


= One of my favorite painters 1s Vermeer. And 
one of his most famous paintings is The 
Astronomer . I wonder if we shouldn't call him 


an astrologer rather than an astronomer. You 
have to locate yourself in the time, in the 
place, and pay attention to the objects 
arranged in the composition of the painting, 
such as the astrolabe or the book. I think it 
deserves a deep analysis. And I think we could 
conclude that it represents an astrologer. For 


art historians it won't matter, but for me, it 
does. 


* To replace an injustice like that in time, 
in something as insignificant as calling an 
astrologer -and not an astronomer- an 
astrologer painted on a canvas, would be fine, 
yes. But it also reminds me that there are 
worse things for our discipline. Sometimes we 
have the enemy at home. As they say: with 
friends (or colleagues) like these, who needs 
enemies ... I mean this: just twenty years ago, 
back in 1997, a company offered me a salary to 
attend a popular astrological consultation by 
phone. Of those that last a few minutes, 
superficial and generic by force. The offer was 
substantial, but I did not accept it. Save the 
document and show it to other astrologers, such 
as the Barcelona-adopted Ernesto Cordero and 
some other member of the former Associacio 
d'Astrologia de Catalunya, of which I was 
president in 1998-2000. I have never accepted 
this way of doing astrology, both because of 
its ineffectiveness and because of its blatant 
commercialism, which hurts astrology itself 
instead of benefiting it. It is to give 
ammunition to our detractors. I know that other 
astrologers have done it in the past and will 
continue to do so in the future, out of 
necessity or greed, but it is a serious mistake 
that we all pay for. 


* There are other Juan Estadella. One is my 
father, who has nothing to do with astrology, 


but who in the past consulted some astrologer, 
in the early eighties, for his business. I was 
totally alien, at that time, to the world of 
astrology. Besides, he was barely thirteen 
years old, although I remember well a report 
he asked to found a company. And there is 
another, a certain Juan Maria Estadella, who 
without being from my family -as far as I know- 
published in 1963, together with Javier Tomeo, 
the book La brujeria y la superstition en 
Cataluna . It is not pure astrology, but it 
does have to do with my place of origin and 
esoteric issues. And just on the days when I 
wrote this entry in the newspaper, Law 11/2017 
(of a local administration) of legal reparation 
of the victims of the Franco regime was 
published on the Internet. Among the thousands 
of victims who are legally and morally 
rehabilitated is a relative of mine, named Juan 
Estadella Ventura, my father's paternal 
uncle. He went into exile in Brazil around 
1951, as a result of the Spanish Civil War, as 
he was a Catalan anarchist who endured badly 
the postwar years, between reprisals and 
discontent, and decided to emigrate to Brazil 
(Republica dos Estados Unidos do Brasil, 
according to the document of entry into the 
country). Al ^ formed a family and created a 
great mechanical industry that still exists to 
return to Spain in the last years of the 
dictatorship. On the Internet I have found the 
entry form to Brazil as an emigrant, which has 
the registration number 157.105 and is issued 


on February 24, 1951. This other Juan Estadella 
was born in Badalona (Barcelona, Spain), like 
me, but not in 1967 but on January 28, 1914. 
In his letter his progressive ideology is 
understood, anarchic even, with five planets 
in Aquarius, including the Sun, which is in 
close conjunction to Uranus. This last 
configuration also weighed when making him opt 
for mechanics. I do not have the time of birth 
-although I plan to ask the registry shortly- 
and it is possible that the Moon was also in 
Aquarius. My relative was arrested on several 
occasions for defending his ideas and it seems 
that he never abdicated his status as an 
anarchist, SO the dictatorial regime 
practically forced him to leave. My struggle, 
also with Aquarian overtones, is in another 
war: the total and definitive rehabilitation 
of astrology in society. 

* Today I read an interview on the Internet 
with a trance named Cristopher Thomas, who 
assures that he has a fighting bull as a 
pet. The animal in question, who is now seven 
years old, is called Fadjen. Its owner affirms 
that he bought it from the famous Domecg cattle 
ranch and that there! They assured him that "if 
you take good care of him, you will see that 
he is even more faithful and meek than a dog." I 
can't help but think about some of the 
attributes of the Taurus sign: fidelity, 
tranquility ... It is no coincidence. The bull 
was born on February 5, 2010, with three 
planets in Aquarius. Without a doubt: a bull 


from the New Age of Aquarius, in which the 
bullfighting party will foreseeably 
disappear. I believe and hope so. It cannot be 
said of Fadjen, the mascot bull, that he is not 
a brave bull: he has Mars in Leo. The news has 
appeared in the press in a favorable context: 
Sun in Cancer, in trigone to Neptune. There is 
some tough aspect, like a Sun-Mars conjunction 
or a Sun-Pluto opposition, but they do not stop 
favoring a certain environmental activism or 
in defense of animals, along with the rest of 
the configurations. The Sun-Jupiter square 
also helps, very against the law and 
traditions. 

* On the birth certificate of the Spanish 
businessman Amancio Ortega: he burned, during 
or shortly after the Spanish Civil War, 
according to an official of the population who 
keeps his birth certificate. And I say this 
because that person also informed me that the 
birth certificate was reconstructed, but it 
does not include the birth time. A shame for 
astrologers: we will never know the time of 
birth of this Spanish businessman and we will 
never be able to compare his reality with his 
birth theme. ^ Or yes? My friend Isaac Starkman 
may have succeeded: froma list of biographical 
events he has been able to find his birth 
time. ^ How? With the Polaris software , of 
its creation, which since 1996 allows us to 
rectify the natal time or simply find it, even 
if we do not have any time reference. In 
several of my books - I extend myself 


particularly in Predictive Astrology = I 
expose this wonderful astrological program, the 
only one that allows you to rectify the natal 
hour or find it, starting from the topocentric 
primary directions. If Starkman is correct, 
Amancio Ortega was born at 12:03:20 AM (GMT), 
with a 21 Â° Ascendant Cancer. 

$ Today nothing is read or heard other than 
the Catalan independence process. I do not have 
a very clear opinion about it. Basically, I 
feel European. Barcelones, too, and Catalan 
later. Spanish is not alien to me at all and 
every time I go to Latin America I am aware of 
it. What is the meaning of flags today? Do not 
know. I'm not sure, although I respect all 
options and opinions. Although I feel and am 
Catalan, as an astrologer I know well our 
Aquarian future, in which borders and flags 
will end up disappearing. And this cannot stop 
influencing me from now on. Quite possibly we 
go back to the old city-states. For this 
reason, I cannot escape an internal tendency 
that makes me consider myself a citizen of the 
world first and foremost. In addition, 
traveling helps you overcome all kinds of 
nationalisms, from one side or the other. Apart 
from this elastic and conciliatory vision of 
our geographical and political reality, perhaps 
tomorrow I am living in La Paz (Bolivia), or 
in Geneva (Switzerland), two of my favorite 
cities 

5 By the way: more than once I have been asked 
the reason for not signing my books or articles 


like Joan Estadella, who is Juan but in 
Catalan. The reason is very simple: from a 
young age I began to write and publish 
astrology articles in American and English 
magazines and in this language (English), 
"Joan" is Juana in Spanish. So to avoid 
confusion, always choose to sign as Juan 
Estadella. And until today. It is too strong a 
reason not to take it into account. 


x There is a French researcher (Claude T.) who 
on his website claims to have proof that Jean 
Baptiste Morin was not born on the date and 
time that we all know and that he includes 
himself in his Gallican Astrology. To begin 
with, he says that he has found the original 
document containing Morin's baptism and that 
the document contains the same date he was 
born. That is to say: he must have been born 
days or weeks before, according to this man. If 
it is authentic, the document does not seem to 
me to be an acceptable proof. Perhaps in the 
sixteenth century some children were baptized 
on the same day they were born or the next 
day. The reason: infant mortality was very high 
and in Catholic France at the time, some 
families may have rushed to baptize their 
children in case a few days later. It's a 
possibility that occurs to me. More plausible 
in the case of Morin, since he was born early 
in the morning and could well have been 
baptized in the afternoon or earlier. 


It is also not proof that you have not found a 
birth certificate. It seems that this man has 
written a book (forthcoming) where the proofs 
that Morin was born on a previous date will be 
shown, a date that he has already advanced on 
his website. In my opinion, Morin's letter is 
correct and was born the day we know. The image 
(an engraving or painting of the time) that has 
come down to us from him perfectly matches his 
Aries Ascendant. And if I close my eyes, I can 
almost hear his high, piercing voice. But there 
is another reason not to doubt his original 
letter: the 

transit for some of the most important events 
of its existence. For example, on July 9, 1605, 
Morin was attacked, wounded and his life in 
danger. The transits are adjusted to what 
happened: Pluto on the natal Ascendant (2 Â° 
orb), Neptune in opposition to the natal XII 
house (exact aspect) and Mars in conjunction 
Wich. the- natal Mars (L 7 orb)... Another event: 
on May 9, 1613, Morin became a doctor of 
medicine. The transits for that day are: Venus 
over the 

Natal Ascendant (2 j orb), Uranus in 
conjunction to the natal III house (1 Â° orb) 
and Jupiter in trigone to the Midheaven, being 
in orb. The trance researcher who doubts 
Morin's original birth chart and date also 
suggests that the Gallican Astrology, his 
magnum opus, was not written by Morin, but by 
some colleagues or acquaintances of the 
time. In this detail it is seen that the one 


who affirms something like that is not an 
astrologer. The knowledge that is poured into 
this work can only be done by someone who, as 
an astrologer, is exceptional. And even if we 
reduce Morin's fame and achievements as an 
astrologer -because there are always 
biographical exaggerations or true legends- it 
is difficult that they are not the same 
person. Not for nothing did Morin exist and his 
passage through Earth can be traced from the 
Internet. But the most important thing is this: 
the events that appear in that work, like the 
two previous events that I have pointed out, 
have transits of larger planets that perfectly 
match what happened, with a limited orb (I use 
Alexander Marr's rectification on the Morin 
letter, but the difference is minimal). And in 
1661, date of publication of 
the Gallican Astrology, June, Neptune and 
Pluto had not been discovered! Who could 
"create" such a scenario, with elements 
invisible for the time? By the way, Morin 
passed away with these transits: Uranus in 
opposition to the IC (3rd orb) and the South 
Node transiting its IC (2nd orb), appropriate 
transit for a person who dies at an early 
age. Emilio Botin himself died with a transit 
like this: Uranus in opposition to his natal 


CI (exact aspect). Anyway: at the moment I have 
no intention of changing Morin's birth date and 
T will continue to consider 


Gallican Astrology as his authorship , without 
a doubt. 


* A piece of news has shaken the media in this 
country: former banker Miguel Blesa has 
committed suicide by shooting himself in the 
chest. This man went from directing one of the 
main Spanish savings banks to being arrested 
for fraud and corruption. From glory to misery 
in no time. His flaw: greed and an inordinate 
ego, dependent on luxury and social 
appearance. If it is a suicide, it is 
significant that it was from a shot in the 
chest: it had the Sun in Leo, along with three 
other personal planets, but the star king was 
in conjunction with Saturn and Pluto, two 
malefics. And the Sun is the ruler of house 
VIII (death). The planetary transits to the 
natal chart that circulates on the Internet 
are: Pluto in conjunction with the Ascendant 
(4th orb), Saturn in conjunction with the XII 
house (lst orb) and South Node in opposition 
to the VIII house (orb of 2), among other less 
important traffic. Blesa was a friend of the 
former president of the Spanish government Jose 
Maria Aznar and quite possibly he acceded to 
the top of the Spanish bank thanks to this 
friendship. I have looked at the transits that 
Aznar has for the date of his friend's suicide 
and they are "from book": Saturn in transit in 
conjunction with the natal house XI (friends), 
Pluto in conjunction with the XII house and 
Mars in conjunction with the Moon (strong 
emotional impact). All aspects with an orb of 
a few degrees. 


* With the Sun at the end of Cancer, in 
conjunction with a Mars at the beginning of Leo 
and both being square to Uranus -a risk 
configuration-, the French philosopher Anne 
Dufourmantelle dies when trying to save some 
children on a southern beach from France. She 
was the author of a score of works, among which 
is Elogio del Riesgo. This philosophy affirmed 
that the whole life is risk and that living 
without taking risks is not really living, it 
is being half alive, in spiritual anesthesia. I 
respect your position, but once again astrology 
surpasses philosophy, as it does with 
psychology and with all science or art: 
astrology -among other things- helps precisely 
to calibrate and manage that risk, anticipating 
what is to come. (It is not a typographical 
error) and adapting the action to the 
astrological context, call it transit, solar 
revolution or directions; or all of them 
together. How much longer will it take for 
those refractory to the message of the stars 
to see beyond their noses? 


* Today I have communicated with Maria Mir, the 
daughter of Jose Mir Rocafort, the well-known 
Professor Fassman. At the time, he was a well- 
known parapsychologist, who apart from having 
an open consultation with the public and giving 
courses, showed his skills as a hypnotist and 
mentalist in theaters, especially in Spain and 
America, with great public success. His 
professional career spanned a good part of the 
20th century, until his death in 1991. I asked 


Maria Mir the time of her father's birth and 
she told me that he was born at exactly six in 
the afternoon. I have calculated his birth 
chart and he gives me a Scorpio Ascendant, 
totally plausible, according to his physique 
and character. His birth chart is extremely 
interesting: he has what is called a 

Comet, which is a Great Trine that incorporates 
a fourth planet in sextile to two of the three 
planets that make up said figure, with one of 
the Great Trine planets in opposition to that 
fourth planet. The head of the Comet has 
Neptune in the IX house as the protagonist, 
with Uranus in opposition, in the form of a 
stimulus. The Great Trine involves houses III 


(Uranus), VII (Mercury) and XI (Moon). This 
configuration is one of the keys to Fassman, 
justifying his talent and psychic 


abilities. Pluto, ruler of the Ascendant, is 
in house VIII. The fascination and power of 
suggestion of this character are well reflected 
from a Sun-Venus conjunction in house VII, 
sextile to Neptune (house IX). There are other 
configurations of interest, such as a Jupiter 
in Capricorn in the X house, sextile to the 
Ascendant, justifying his professional success 
and his personal luck - which he had -, 
respectively. Maria Mir wrote a biography of 
her father a few years ago and in it she refers 
to his birth chart, indicating that he was born 
under the sign of Taurus and that he had the 
Moon in Virgo. He also says in that work that 


his father kept until the end, among his notes, 
his birth chart. 


* Today Angel Nieto, former world motorcycling 
champion, died after having suffered a serious 
traffic accident days ago in Ibiza (Spain). Sad 
and unfortunate news. Once again, the transits 
for the accident are from the book: Uranus 
squaring the natal Mars (1 Â° orb) and Mars 
conjunct natal Saturn (1 Â° orb), at the same 
time that it is in opposition to the Sun of 
birth. (exact aspect). I do not have the time 
of birth and, therefore, his birth chart, but 
a very delicate point in his chart has to be 
the Sun-Saturn opposition, the Sun being in 
Aguarius and Saturn in Leo. Also, the Sun is 
in conjunction with Mars. And the latter, in 
sextile to Jupiter, the sports binomial par 
excellence. The planetary transits on the birth 
chart of his old rival but also friend Giacomo 
Agostini - perhaps the best motorcycle racer 
of all time - clearly reflects the loss of his 
friend and colleague: Uranus in transit exactly 
on the cusp of the XI house, Pluto on the natal 
Descendant and Saturn square to the MC-IC axis. 


* Those who have heard me speak on a topic 
related to destiny, you know what I think: we 
can interact with it, change it, but the only 
condition is, paradoxically, to know it; but 
to know him only in his master lines, in the 
most important or notorious, no more is 
needed. Astrology is like a road map, allowing 
us to choose the best path and avoid a closed 


road, for example. The inexperienced 
astrologer may be surprised when he sees such 
strong signals in the letter of someone who is 
shocked by the death of his friend, such as 
Agostini regarding Angel Nieto. But they are 
only signs and not determinations. They help 
glimpse a possibility. Astrology is art and 
science. And if someone reads me and thinks 
that it is not possible to avoid an accident, 
they should read my anecdote (it is in my 
book Astrology at your fingertips) about an 
employee of a company that I advise. I 
recommend not using a young person as a driver 
due to its high probability of accidents within 
one or a year and a half sight, given that it 
had the dangerous transit of Uranus on Mars. An 
accident does not always occur with this 
combination, but if the worker in question 
already has Mars in the X house and in 
opposition to Uranus in his natal chart, among 
other radical configurations, such a 
contingency is a serious possibility. To this 
day I am about to ensure that he avoids an 
accident with it, perhaps fatal, because soon 
after this employee suffered a serious 
fortuitous accident when a metal door fell on 
his arm in his workplace, tearing skin, muscle 
and tendons. He was off work for many 
months. Had he driven and put this traffic to 
the test, the consequences could have been 
dire. 


* The body of the famous Catalan painter 
Salvador Dali is exhumed for a paternity 


test. We already know that Post Mortem transits 
are operational but we can ask ourselves if the 
transits that your natal chart receives these 
days are related to this fact: Saturn in 
opposition to the natal XII house (almost exact 
aspect) plus Pluto approaching the conjunction 
with it. Natal descendant. Interesting. 


a The Spanish press, on paper and digital, 
is full of references to the change of 
footballing airs of the Brazilian star 
Neymar. Much to my regret, I would prefer that 
this type of news give way to other more 
important ones. But it is journalistic news and 
you have to accept it. Well, it seems that 
Neymar Jr. has paid a millionaire contract 
termination clause with his current club, FC 
Barcelona, to be able to sign for Paris Saint- 
Germain, a club based in Paris (France). We 
have Neymar's birth chart: an Ascendant in 
Sagittarius and its ruler, Jupiter, in Virgo, 
in the X house. A very obvious combination, 
which leads the person to a successful 
professional career, although Virgo is not a 
very favorable sign. for a Jupiter in X to 
manifest itself in all its splendor; With 
Virgo, expectations may not live up to reality, 
at the level of athletic performance or 
results, for example. And even more being 
Jupiter square to the Ascendant, which can give 
excesses -in behavior, perhaps- and 
extravagances of all kinds. Jupiter is at the 
disposal of Mercury, in Aquarius and in House 
III, in a triple conjunction Sun-Mercury- 


Saturn. In my opinion, this configuration has 
a lot to do with the mobility in the game that 
this footballer shows, his speed, his ability 
to uncheck and his ability with his 
feet. Maxime, when all of them are in sextile 
to the ascending degree (here, with lower 
case). The Moon in opposition to the Midheaven 
is relatively frequent in public figures, as 
in Barack Obama or Rocky Marciano, although in 
some cases the popularity can turn into 
unpopularity. The quadruple conjunction of 
planets in house II (basic personal economy), 
it is not difficult to relate it to the 
importance of money in your life. Now and in 
the future, although later on their finances 
can be very unstable: Uranus, Neptune and Mars 
do not behave very rationally, even if they are 
in Capricorn. Well, are there signs of change 
in your professional career? Of course, and 
very clear: Uranus is in trigone to Midheaven 
(career opportunities, career changes, new 
challenges or projects) and in sextile to IC 
(changes of residence). The latter is a typical 
aspect of change of address; the experienced 
astrologer knows it and the novice should know 
it or will know it in time. Besides, Jupiter 
in transit is in sextile to the Ascendant 
(here, in capital letters), signaling a good 
personal moment, as well as in trigone to the 
natal Sun. At this time, Neptune is making a 
quadrature to the AS-DS axis, which implies 
going through an unclear period on a personal 
and relationship level. I think I should have 


thought very well about that change of scenery 
and, above all, where to go. Deciding something 
important with this aspect is not recommended: 
mistakes and confusion can easily occur. 

* The Sun is in Leo, even in conjunction with 
Mars -astronomical-astrological fact that has 
been noticed in the past days-, but already 
close to the sextile with Jupiter. This boreal 
summer of 2017 marks the 50th anniversary of 
the birth of hippies . This was a sociocultural 
movement born in San Francisco (California, 
USA), which quickly spread to the rest of the 
globe. It was a true anti-military and peaceful 
revolution, moreover, which for some still 
continues. Environmentalism, equal rights or 
pacifism may not be well understood today in 
all its dimensions, regardless of that seed 
sown in the fabulous sixties. Astrologically, 
this movement was born in the shadow and under 
the influence, of course, of the Uranus-Pluto 
conjunction. They demanded a more just society, 
without wars (they opposed the Vietnam War), 
sexually liberated (free love), more 
egalitarian (without distinction of race or 
sex) and free of social or other hierarchies. 
, more typical of another era. The idea was 
good, to put it colloquially. And partly, I 
like it. Not in vain na ^ that same year, a few 
months earlier, with the same Uranus-Pluto 
conjunction. It is also true that this ideology 
so idealistic - worth the expression - 
astrologically reinforced by the sextile of 
Neptune to the Uranus-Pluto conjunction, was 


mixed with drugs, music and marginal 
manifestations of all kinds. But nobody is 
perfect. And in a way, part of the best of our 
world today five decades later we owe it to 
that moment and to the hippy movement , which 
is now history. 


* T have seen on the Internet a 1949 photo of 
the capo di tutti capi , Lucky Luciano, in his 
Italian retreat in Naples (Italy). I have saved 
it. It is curious that he died of a simple 
myocardial infarction, like the most common of 
mortals, after a highly dangerous criminal 
career, bordering on insanity. The photo is 


quite a poem: a slightly thinner Luciano - it 
is noticeable by the double-breasted suit, 
which has excess folds - and somewhat gray, 


gazes into the distance with his glacial and 
penetrating gaze while holding his cup of 
coffee in his hand. In the background, in a 
typical Italian bar, waiters and customers seem 
to participate in the scene, but without 
showing the emotions of the 1930s: fear, 
respect... Luciano in Napoles is already a 
familiar character, more accessible. The years 
have changed the circumstances, but his natal 
chart is the same: the unstable Ascendant 
Aquarius is nothing more than the entrance door 
to an incredibly dynamic, aggressive and cold 
sky map at the same time: the Sun and the Moon 
are together at the same time. Mars and Saturn, 
over the Midheaven. Comments are 
superfluous. Jupiter is on the cusp of house 
VIII, in Libra, and in  sextile to the 


Midheaven. The latter is not difficult to link 
to his role as a mobster, illegally capturing 
resources, with a certain luck and ease in his 
criminal journey. 


* Another mobster: this year marks the 115th 
anniversary of the birth of Meyer Lansky, a 
famous American gangster of the first decades 
of the 20th century. It is curious that this 
mobster was born on July 4, the US national 
holiday. It seems that he was a very 
intelligent guy, a kind of accountant and Lucky 
Luciano's henchman. We do not have his time of 
birth, but from his planetary positions I would 
highlight the four planets in Gemini (plus the 
Moon, perhaps), which may have given him a 
certain commercial, negotiating sense, and his 
Sun in Cancer, which could have given him a 
meaning. of the clan and of the "family" 
(criminal, it is understood). It has Mars in 
conjunction with 

Pluto and both in opposition to Uranus, in an 
exact triple aspect. Clearly, this 
configuration is related to their way of being, 
of seeing life and their professional activity. 


x Another photo, but not of a mobster but of 
a guitar virtuoso: Paco de Lucia. Few times an 
image captures so well the essence of the 
character, his spirit. He is seen finishing a 
cup of black coffee, with a guitar lying on his 
back, on a kind of sofa. His gaze is deep and 
wise. Try to force a smile typical of the 
Capricorn Ascendant, generally with a grim and 


serious expression. From his letter he would 
highlight Venus in Capricorn in the I house, 
in gquincunx to a Uranus straddling the V and 
VI. Mars in Virgo, in the VIII, I see it as a 
permanent and obsessive investigation 
regarding the guitar. 


* When I write about astrology many times I 
do not resort to the letter of that famous 
person or to confirm a certain configuration, 
because I write from memory and I am not usually 
wrong. Some of us have the faculty - nothing 
extraordinary, on the other hand - to remember 
a great number of natal charts. It is my case: 
I can draw many famous letters from memory and 
remember specific aspects or configurations of 
thousands of natal charts. I remember once, 
many years ago, in one of the Astrological 
Conference of the Astrology Association of 
Catalonia, that Ernesto Cordero, a well-known 
Argentine astrologer living in Barcelona, and 
I were describing the birth chart of Richard 
Nixon and other characters from memory, in 
order to surprise of the assistants. Ernesto 
is also from the astrologers club with a 


considerable "astrological" memory (so to 
speak). 

* About other colleagues: reviewing letters 
from my database - something similar to 
entertaining looking at old photos - I have 


noticed the birth map of Manuel Augusto Gimiso 
Folch, a Barcelona astrologer who died a few 
years ago. He had the Sun and three personal 


planets in the sign of Gemini, something that 
was evident when you spoke with him: his mental 
acceleration and his explosion of words, ideas 
or concepts. Curious was the conjunction of the 
Moon with an Ascendant in Capricorn, which at 
the same time gave it a serious, formal, 
traditional image, although it was just that: 
appearance; because deep down he was much 
cooler, spontaneous, agile, Gemini, in short. I 
met him in the autumn of 1988, when our common 
friend Adolfo Roca prepared an astrology course 
for him at the Museum of Badalona, the city 
where he was born and which is next to 
Barcelona, on the Mediterranean coast. We never 
finished the course, but I have a good memory 
of those days or, rather, of the afternoons- 
nights in which he exhibited his vision of 
astrology in a classroom on a high floor of the 
museum. He waS a generous man, because when 
class finished we went to a kind of ham inn 
that was nearby, and sometimes he invited 
Serrano ham and he came with the money that 
minutes before he had collected from his own 
students. Some time later he got involved in 
the company of a known as an astrological and 
business advisor, but without much luck. Gimiso 
Folch was a pioneer of astrology in Barcelona 
in the seventies and eighties, giving outreach 
conferences in different centers, such as in 
the mythical Abraxas room , giving astrology 
classes and consulting at his home on Calle 
Muntaner, in La uptown Barcelona. He also 
participated in the associative movements of 


the time, in different national and 
international astrology congresses held in 
Barcelona and collaborating with their articles 
in local astrology newsletters and 
magazines. Life was not very fair with him - 
he attributed it to his Cosmic Cross, as he 
told me - and already at the end of the 
nineties, when he was no longer so 
astrologically active, I invited him to give 
different talks at the Associacio d 'Astrologia 
de Catalunya (Association of Astrology of 
Catalonia), being I president OÂ£ this 
entity. After this period, I still called him 
on the phone inquiring about his health at the 
beginning of the new century and 
millennium. Unfortunately, a meal at a Chinese 
restaurant near her home was pending forever. 


* Regarding the Astrology Association of 
Catalonia, I was lucky enough to live a golden 
age while I was president of said entity 
between May 1998 and May 2000. I took the reins 
of the association with a significant drop in 
membership, bleeding I would say, being about 
to disappear, and in a short time we had more 
than 125 partners, with almost all the 
professional astrologers in Barcelona. I ran 
for the election as president, along with a 
team of three more women (aS vice president, 
secretary and treasurer), and we won. In 
reality, no one else showed up, as no captain 
wants to take command or helm when a ship 
Sinks. But we refloated the association, with 
its newsletter, its astrological conferences, 


its library of astrology books and its talks 
open to all. We became the most important 
astrological association in Spain and its 
prestige reached other continents. It was a 
golden age, prior to the boom of the Internet 
and astrological forums, then incipient, and 
before social networks. Now everything seems to 
be virtual: communicating with other 
astrologers on Facebook or in astrological 
forums is normal, but then we would meet on 
Friday afternoons (sometimes there were 
conferences during the week), we had gatherings 
about our discipline and we learned. And then 
we all went to dinner together. One of the best 
ways to nurture our group was the astrological 
days that we celebrated one weekend each 
quarter. We invited astrologers from the city 
or from other Spanish cities (sometimes from 
abroad) to give lectures or workshops. In the 
end, we had a kind of party with cava, wine, 
and sweet and savory cakes prepared by a 
partner, a retired pastry chef, named Josep 
Batet, now deceased. The mandate as president 
of the entity was for two years and he could 
only opt for one reelection. Everything was 
going smoothly and everyone, including the 
three astrologers on my board of directors, 
thought it was time to continue for another two 
years. I remained incognito until the last 
moment, but I always knew that I was not going 
to introduce myself again. Seconds were never 
good and when a high level is reached, the only 
thing that can happen is to fall lower. What 


better way than to go out the front door ?, 
What better way for people to remember you only 
for something positive? The good, if it is 
brief, is twice as good. It was a wise 
choice. I believe that many presidents of 
sports, economic or political entities should 
learn the lesson: when you get high, you have 
to retire with a good taste in your mouth. Do 
not let circumstances or other people change 
the sign of a good trip. To retire on time is 
to beat: time and others. At that time I had 
Uranus in sextile to my natal Sun, and Pluto 
in trigone at the same point. It was time to 
preside over an entity. Doing it well is 
difficult (you have to imagine having to deal 
with more than 125 astrologers), but knowing 
how to withdraw on time is even more difficult, 
because the temptation to continue is strong. 

* Returning to the astrologers who have already 
left: what remains of an astrologer when he 
leaves this world? There is a trace of 
astrology, major or minor, but always 
important. There are one, two, or a thousand 
students that I teach, who in turn become as 
many astrologers and, perhaps, teachers of this 
science-art. Interpretations, advice and 
recommendations for clients remain, floating in 
the air, but sometimes they are materialized 
in a useful and profitable way in decisions, 
assurances or in new vital directions that, 
sometimes, change personal destiny; And who 
knows, maybe the collective destiny. Does that 
seem too little to us? Sometimes, not always, 


there are lectures at congresses, from which 
someone learned or from which someone 
enlightened, so to speak. Or a handful of 
articles that are part of a chain of knowledge 
that, sometimes, take us further in our 
knowledge. Other times there are books, better 
or worse, that go much further than other forms 
of astrological testimony. Or some videos 
today, some lost message, some forgotten talk 

and the personal and professional memory 
of the astrologer, major or minor, ephemeral 
or imperishable. This reflection has a meeting 
point with a writing in French that I have seen 
on the Internet: the inventory of goods left 
by the French astrologer Jean Baptiste Morin 
(1583-1656), together with a kind of testament 
or last wills, dated to the first of November 
1656, shortly before his death. Morin left some 
furniture, kitchen utensils, stationery, a 
copper astrolabe and other gadgets, personal 
items, and most of all, a dong list of 
books. But above all, Morin bequeathed us all 
his Gallican Astrology, a brilliant text ahead 
of its time, and the flower of an exalted 
astrology. 


* To connect with the outside world, beyond my 
office on the sixth floor of my apartment in 
Barcelona's Eixample, I have the electronic 
head of El Periodico, a Barcelona newspaper 
that. is also printed on paper. It is my 
favorite newspaper in Spanish. It is not just 
because in the year-end edition of 2014 I will 
be interviewed on the last page. It is also 


because it is a progressive and center-left 
newspaper. I am a republican and from the 
center (I claim that political space between 
today's extremisms) and that is my preference 
at the institutional level and my political 
tendency, respectively. And since in the world 
of journalism and newspapers in general it is 
impossible to be completely objective and 
impartial, I prefer that the news that reaches 
me be filtered or perfumed with that 
progressive color and aroma. In the Age of 
Aquarius we are going towards a compassionate 
capitalism, the so-called Third Way that better 
redistributes resources. I like that. I 
believe in private property and the free 
market, but with a strong, impartial and honest 
state that regulates the abuses of the current 
financial and business empire. 


* Before I mentioned Helena Picard, the wife 
of the great Madrid astrologer Gerardo 
Sanchez. She was a very special client and 
friend. Very important in my life. I contacted 
her back in 1993, after seeing some kind of ad 
for her husband in an astrology magazine, I 
think I remember. It caught my attention that 
he used the techniques that interested me 
(topocentric primary directions), but when he 
called by phone his wife told me that Gerardo 
had died in 1986. I never got to know Gerardo, 
but I found out about his work from other 
sources. Helena was the main one, of 
course. Well, after a long conversation on the 
phone, we agreed that the following weekend she 


would travel to Madrid, to visit her and learn 
more about her husband's work. I remember that 
trip by train to the capital, a trip that would 
be repeated the following week, this time with 
my friend and teacher, the astrologer Adolfo 
Roca. In Madrid, I marveled at Gerardo 
Sanchez's astrological library, as well as his 
personal archives, with letters interpreted to 
the cream of the Madrid society of the 
seventies and eighties. The rest is history, 
for me: I converted! at Helena's astrologer for 
many years, until she had to be admitted to a 
nursing home due to her age. In truth, she no 
longer recognized me shortly after being 
hospitalized and our relationship ended here, 
although I continued visiting her until the 
end, although she no longer recognized me, she 
was just smiling. But for me, it was important 
to see her and be there for a few minutes with 
her. Over the years, the degree of mutual trust 
was very great. She presented me with her 
husband's library. And I, adding the books to 
mine, donate them. ^ Where will they be better 
cared for? It is important that they are 
available to everyone, for a mere astrological 
interest. Precisely in this summer of 2017, it 
will be 100 years since the birth of Helena 
Picard, exactly when the Sun returns to the 
19th degree of Leo. And it is no coincidence 
that your Sun is in trigone to my Midheaven and 
in sextile to my natal Moon, of course. 


* If this year marks the 100th anniversary of 
the birth of Helena Picard, last year it marked 


the 30th anniversary of the death of her 
husband, Gerardo Sanchez. This Madrid 
astrologer, from his office on Arquitectura 
Street in Madrid, gave exemplary attention to 
all those, rich or poor, who knocked on his 
door in search of astrological advice. He was 
a humble and discreet man, despite having 
attended important people. In addition, I do 
not hesitate to invest all the money that was 
necessary to buy books anywhere in the world 
to continue advancing in knowledge and 
perfecting his art. Quite an example. In 
addition, his teaching work also matched his 
work as a consulting astrologer. I never knew 
him, but through his wife I was able to learn 
from him and his books. It was an important 
link for my career. 


X In August of this year there are two 
events that show what happens when we have two 
hours of birth 

precise. The first case is that of Glen 
Campbell, singer and songwriter 

American passed away these days. The transits 
that justify his death are: Uranus in 
opposition to the natal house XII (practically 
exact aspect) and Saturn in opposition to the 
natal house VIII (exact, almost). The second 
case is that of the current queen consort of 
the Netherlands, Maxima Zorreguieta. Her 
father died in these days and in her birth chart 
these transitions are observed: Pluto in 
opposition to the natal house VIII and Neptune 


in conjunction with the CI of 
birth. 


* A new terrorist attack, this time in my 
Barcelona (Spain), returns to star in the news 
of the moment. The Sun is in conjunction with 
Mars (6 < orb) ip the sky at the 
moment. Barcelona is too old âa city for 
astrologers to have its founding charter. We 
know that it is an Aquarian city, but little 
else. But we can resort to the chart of the 
entry of the Sun in Aries for Barcelona in this 
2017: Pluto is in conjunction (exact) to the 
cusp of house VIII and Saturn at 2 Â° from the 
Descendant. ^ Enough LO have made a 
forecast? Hardly. 


* This year marks the 50th anniversary of the 
death of Che Guevara. I know his native theme 
well. It is documented (rather confirmed by the 
mother, other sources aside) that he was born 
on May 14 and not on June 14. But some 
astrologers still insist on presenting the 
wrong birth chart. I said that I know the birth 
theme of this character well because it has 
been precisely 10 years now that I have 
presented a presentation in Brazil on Che and 
the astrological background of the sixties, 
particularly with the Uranus-Pluto cycle as the 
protagonist. It is in my book Notes from an 
Astrologer, which can be downloaded for free 
from the Internet on my website. I have a 
certain sympathy for the character, although 
he does not share his political ideas, 


especially when it comes to collectivization 
and other reactionary ideas. I believe in 
justice and equality, but also in freedom. And 
I don't believe in policies that never worked: 
not in Russia, not in China, not in Cuba. We 
will never know what would have happened to Che 
had he remained alive. Dying young, the myth 
is born, that it does not make mistakes or 
betray any cause. But let's give you the 
benefit of the doubt. 


* Thinking about Che, guerrillas, helmets and 
rifles brings to mind another round figure: a 
few weeks after the 50th anniversary of his 
disappearance, I will celebrate (here if I can 
use this word) 30 years of my license from 
army. I spent a year doing my military service 
at the Polvorin de Cadrete (Zaragoza). I 
remember well the main transit that justified 
my departure to the army in November 1986: 
Uranus in opposition to the natal CI (3rd 
orb). This transit is often observed in changes 
of address (IC) and employment (MC). 


* Sun at 16 Â° Virgo. Today I have visited the 
cathedral of Cologne (Germany), of Gothic 
style. Construction began in 1248 and was not 
finished until 1880. It is the most visited 
monument in Germany. Its colossal and majestic 
appearance will impress anyone. But 
architectural merits aside, I am here for 
something else: here lie the remains of the 
Magi, those astrologers from the East who 
traveled to Bethlehem EO worship the 


Messiah. It is a true place of astrological 
pilgrimage, although nobody assures that the 
bones of the Magi from the East really are 
here. Likewise, I wanted to come here. And the 
experience is worth it. 


Sobre el Autor 

Juan Estadella learned astrology from 1988 with 
Adolfo Roca, his teacher in this 
discipline. Since 1992 he has been a consulting 
astrologer and professor of astrology. He has 
written and published several books on this 
subject (4 of them together with the Uruguayan 


author Boris CEISEOÃE); in different 
publishers. Author of research articles 
published in leading international 
astrological 


journals: Considerations (USA), Aspects (USA) 
, Linguaggio 
Astrale (Italy), Realta (Ireland), Vlaams (Be 


lgium), The Astrological 
Journal (England), Medium Coeli ( 
Argentina), FAA Journal (Australia), Mercurio- 
3 (Spain) and others. Regular speaker at 
national and international conferences. He has 
given astrological seminars in Spain, 


Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, 
Brazil, Puerto Rico, Russia, Australia and 
other countries. President of the Association 
of Astrology of  Cataluha (1998-2000) and 
Director of the bulletin / magazine Cyklos , 
of the ADAC (1998-2000). Member of the Jury in 


several international awards. Creator of the 
bibliographic collection Biblioteca 
Astrologica de Juan Estadella and Gerardo 
Sanchez, donated to the National Library of 
Catalonia. Organizer of astrological 
conferences and conferences. Founding Partner 
of the Spanish Astrology Society 
(SEA). Founding Partner and Editor of the 
cultural astrological 
magazine Beroso. Founding member of the School 
of Translators of the ADAC. He has been a 
member of the Astrological Association of Great 
Britain , as well as the international 
organization ISAR. Astrological book 
editor. Translator, editor and collaborator of 
the Astrological Magazine Mercurio-3 . Regular 
contributor to various periodicals 
( MC Magazine , edited by the banker Mario 
Conde and others) and guest contributor in 
periodicals. Author of numerous accurate 
astrological predictions. 


Awarded with Honorable Mention in the II 
Edition of the "Gracentro" World Astrological 
Research Award (Valencia, Spain). Year 2002. 


"Gloria de Pubill" Award for the best 
article published in 2001 in the Astrological 


Magazine Mercurio-3 (Barcelona, Spain). Year 
2002. 

Awarded the lst. Award (Diploma of 
Excellence) at the I World Congress of 


Cosmobiology (Scientific Astrology), held in 
Arequipa (Peru) in 2008. 


Astrological Excellence Award (for his 
career), from Gente de Astrologia-GeA. Year 
2009. 


118 

